Anna expected to have to curtsy to the King of Siam; when told to cast herself down on the ground before him, however she refused to abase herself.
He was not at all abashed by her open admiration.
Rather than leaving immediately, they waited for the storm to abate.
Because we were running out of time, the lecturer had to abbreviate her speech.
When Edward VII abdicated the British throne, he surprised the entire world.
Given the aberrant nature of the data, we came to doubt the validity of the entire experiment.
She was unwilling to abet him in the swindle he had planned.
The deal was held in abeyance until her arrival.
On the streets of New York the homeless live in abject poverty, huddling in doorways to find shelter from the wind.
He abjured his allegiance to the king.
His daily ablutions were accompanied by loud noises that he humorously labeled "Opera in the Bath."
Though Rudolph and Duchess Flavia loved one another, their love was doomed, for she had to wed the king; their act of abnegation was necessary to preserve the kingdom.
Moses scolded the idol worshippers in the tribe because he abominated the custom.
We had to abandon our abortive attempts.
Just as abrasive cleaning powders can wear away a shiny finish, abrasive remarks can wear away a listener's patience.
He intended to abrogate the decree issued by his predecessor.
The teller absconded with the bonds and was not found.
Although the King of Siam was an absolute monarch, he did not want to behead his unfaithful wife without absolute evidence of her infidelity.                 
The father confessor absolved him of his sins.
After considering the effect of alcohol on his athletic performance, he decided to abstain from drinking while he trained for the race.
To him, hunger was an abstract concept; he had never missed a meal.
The abstract of the project is yet to completed.
An abusive parent damages a child both mentally and physically.
Where our estates abut, we must build a fence.
1.His arrogance is exceeded only by his abysmal ignorance.   2.abysmal stupidity
If I accede to this demand for blackmail, I am afraid that I will be the victim of future demands.
In our science class, we learn how falling bodies accelerate.
We asked our guide whether the ruins were accessible on foot.
She bought an attractive handbag as an accessory for her dress.
One of the difficulties of our present air age is the need of travellers to acclimate themselves to their new and often strange environments.
The car could not go up the acclivity in high gear.
In Hollywood, an "Oscar" is the highest accolade.
She was in complete accord with the verdict.
When the two young men accosted me, I was frightened because I thought they were going to attack me.
The fisherman was accoutred with the best that the sporting goods store could supply
The accretion of wealth marked the family's rise in power.
You must pay the interest that has accrued on your debt as well as the principal sum.
James was unpopular because of his sarcastic and acidulous remarks.
Welles's success in Citizen Kane marked the acme of his career as an actor; never again did he achieve such popular acclaim.
Although she appeared to acquiesce to her employer's suggestions, I could tell she had reservations about the changes he wanted made.
His acquittal by the jury surprised those who had thought him guilty.
 The acrid odor of burnt gunpowder filled the room after the pistol had been fired.
His tendency to utter acrimonious remarks alienated his audience.
According to recent actuarial tables, life expectancy is greater today than it was a century ago.
I fail to understand what actuated you to reply to this letter so nastily.
In time his youthful acuity of vision failed him, and he needed glasses.
His business acumen helped him to succeed where others had failed.
There is much truth in the old adage about fools and their money.
He was adamant in his determination to punish the wrongdoer.
Jane's editor approved her new comparative literature text but thought it would be even better with an addendum on recent developments in literary criticism.
This idiotic plan is confusing enough to addle anyone.
In the wake of the scandal, the senator's one-time adherent quietly deserted him.
I will entertain this concept as an adjunct to the main proposal.
Her adjuration to tell the truth did not change the witnesses' testimony.
Though Wellington delegated many tasks to his chief adjutant, Lord Fitzroy Somerset, Somerset was in no
He admonished his listeners to change their wicked ways.
Wall paintings and carved statues adorned the temple.
His adroit handling of the delicate situation pleased his employers.
The rock star thrived on the adulation of his groupies and yes-men.
It is a crime to adulterate foods without informing the buyer.
He found this adventitious meeting with his friend extremely fortunate.
Most Americans were unaware of the advent of the Nuclear Age until the news of Hiroshima reached
Batman struggled to save Gotham City from the machinations of his wicked adversary, the Joker.
adverse circumstances compelled him to close his business.
We must learn to meet adversity gracefully.
Since you advert to this matter so frequently, you must regard it as important.
The abolitionists advocated freedom for the slaves.
Under the aegis of the Bill of Rights, we enjoy our most treasured freedoms.
Although he held a position of responsibility, he was an affable individual and could be reached by anyone
His affected mannerisms irritated may of us who had known him before his promotion.
The court refused to accept his statement unless he presented it in the form of an affidavit.
His affiliation with the political party was of short duration for he soon disagreed with his colleagues.
She felt an affinity with all who suffered; their pains were her pains.
Despite Tom's affirmation of innocence, Aunt Polly still suspected he had eaten the pie.
First the registrar had to affix his signature to the license; then he had to affix his official seal.
Foreigners are amazed by the affluence and luxury of the American way of life.
Accustomed to being treated with respect, Miss Challoner was affronted by Vidal's offensive behavior.
She stared, agape, at the many strange animals in the zoo.
We had so much difficulty agreeing upon an agenda that there was very little time for the meeting.
It took weeks to assort the agglomeration of miscellaneous items she had collected on her trip.
The history of the past quarter century illustrates how a President may aggrandize his power to act aggressively in international affairs without considering the wishes of Congress.
The aggregate wealth of this country is staggering to the imagination.
He was aghast at the nerve of the speaker who had insulted his host.
The agility of the acrobat amazed and thrilled the audience.
Her fiery remarks agitated the already angry mob.
The agnostic demanded proof before she would accept the statement of the minister.
We were all agog at the news that the celebrated movie star was giving up his career in order to enter a
As a result of its recent industrialization, the country is gradually losing its agrarian traditions.
He demonstrated his eagerness to serve by his alacrity in executing the orders of his master.
The changing of baser metals into gold was the goal of the students of alchemy.
Though their apartment lacked a full-scale dining room, an alcove adjacent to the living room made an adequate breakfast nook for the young couple.
John Smith's alias was Bob Jones.
Her attempts to alienate the two friends failed because they had complete faith in each other.
The alimentary canal in our bodies is so named because digestion of foods occurs there.
Because Tony had supported Tina through medical school, on their divorce he asked the court to award
The crew tried to allay the fears of the passengers by announcing that the fire had been controlled.
It is alleged that she had worked for the enemy.
Pilgrim's Progress is an allegory of the temptations and victories of the human soul.
This should alleviate the pain; if it does not, we shall have to use stronger drugs.
The furrow followed free is an example of alliteration.
alloy of gold are used more frequently than the pure metal.
Try not to allude to this matter in his presence because the topic annoys him.
allured by the song of the sirens, the helmsman steered the ship toward the reef.
the allusions to mythological characters in Milton's poems bewilder the reader who has not studied Latin.
The farmers found the alluvial deposits at the mouth of the river very fertile.
The sailor climbed aloft into the rigging.
Shy by nature, she remained aloof while all the rest conversed.
Throughout the altercation, not one sensible word was uttered.
In providing tutorial assistance and college scholarships to hundreds of economically disadvantaged youths, Eugene Lang performed a truly altruistic deed.
The unions will attempt to amalgamate their groups into one national body.
The miser's aim is to amass and hoard as much gold as possible.
Ever since the days of Greek mythology we refer to strong and aggressive women as amazons.
A switch-hitter in baseball should be naturally ambidextrous.
She went to the restaurant not for the food but for the ambience.
His ambiguous instructions misled us; we did not know which road to take.
Torn between loving her parents one minute and hating them the next, she was confused by the ambivalence of her feelings.
When she first mounted the horse, she was afraid to urge the animal to go faster than a gentle amble.
ambrosia was supposed to give immortality to any human who ate it.
He was described as an ambulatory patient because he was not confined to his bed.
Many social workers have attempted to ameliorate the conditions of people living in the slums.
He was amenable to any suggestions that came from those he looked up to; he resented advice from his
Hoping to amend his condition, he left Vietnam for the United States.
 In addition to the customary amenities for the business traveler -- fax machines, modems, a health club --the hotel offers the services of a butler versed in social amenities.
His amiable disposition pleased all who had dealings with him.
The dispute was settled in an amicable manner with no harsh words.
Seeing her frown, he wondered if anything were amiss.
Student exchange programs such as the Experiment in International Living were established to promote
Because she was suffering from amnesia, the police could not get the young girl to identify herself.
When his first child was born, the king granted amnesty to all in prison.
The police had to be called in to restrain him after he ran amok in the department store.
The amoral individual lacks a code of ethics; he should not be classified as immoral.
Don Juan was known for his amorous adventures.
John was subject to panic attacks that left him prey to vague, amorphous fears: he knew he was terrified,but could neither define nor explain the cause of his terror.
Frogs are classified as amphibian.
The spectators in the amphitheater cheered the gladiators.
He had ample opportunity to dispose of his loot before his police caught up with him.
Her attempts to amplify her remarks were drowned out by the jeers of the audience.
When the doctors had to amputate Ted Kennedy's leg to prevent the spread of cancer, he did not let the loss of his leg keep him from participating in sports.
Around her neck she wore the amulet that the witch doctor had given her.
Shakespeare's reference to clocks in Julius Caesar is an anachronism; no clocks existed in Caesar's time.
The analgesic qualities of his lotion will provide temporary relief.
She called our attention to the things that had been done in an analogous situation and recommended that
Your analogy is not a good one because the two situations are not similar.
Only the total overthrow of all governmental regulations would satisfy the anarchist.
The assassination of the leaders led to a period of anarchy.
The high priest anathematized the heretic.
He heaped anathema upon his foe.
We set the post in concrete to anchor it in place.
In an ancillary capacity Doctor Watson was helpful; however, Holmes could not trust the good doctor to solve a perplexing case on his own.
Rather than make concrete proposals for welfare reform, President Raegan told anecdotes about poor people who became wealthy despite their impoverished backgrounds.
The doctor ascribes her tiredness to anemia.
His monotonous voice acted like an anesthetic; his audience was soon asleep.
Visiting the site of explosion, Premier Gorbachev wept to see the anguish of the victims and their families.
His features, though angular, were curiously attractive.
He resented the animadversions of his critics, particularly because he realized they were true.
Her animated expression indicated a keenness of intellect.
He incurred the animosity of the ruling class because he advocated limitations of their power.
The animus of the speaker became obvious to all when he began to indulge in sarcastic and insulting
In the annals of this period, we find no mention of democratic movements.
After the glass is annealed, it will be less subject to chipping and cracking.
The enemy in its revenge tried to annihilate the entire population.
In the appendix to the novel, the critic sought to annotate many of the more esoteric references.
The annuity he set up with the insurance company supplements his social security benefits so that he can live very comfortably without working.
The parents of the eloped couple tried to annul the marriage.
His pain was so great that no anodyne could relieve it.
The prophet Samuel anointed David with oil, crowning him king of Israel.
He was placed in the anomalous position of seeming to approve procedures that he despised.
A bird that cannot fly is an anomaly.
The donor of the gift asked the college not to mention him by name; the dean readily agreed to respect his
Despite his lawyers' best efforts to stop him, the angry prisoner continued to make antagonistic remarks to
Before giving permission for Drummie to marry Estella, Miss Havisham had a few questions about the young man's birth and antecedents.
The invention of the radiotelegraph anteceded the development of television by a quarter of a century.
The antediluvian customs had apparently not changed for thousands of years.
The gorilla is the strongest of the anthropoid animals.
Anthropologists have discovered several relics of prehistoric humans in this area.
Primitive religions often have deities with anthropomorphic characteristics.
After the fine performance in the first act, the rest of the play was an anticlimax.
His extreme antipathy to dispute caused him to avoid argumentative discussions with his friends.
Accustomed to editing his papers on word processors, Philip thought typewriters were too antiquated for him to use.
It is advisable to apply an antiseptic to any wound, no matter how slight or insignificant.
This tyranny was the antithesis of all that he had hoped for, and he fought it with all his strength.
After heating the iron horseshoe in the forge, the blacksmith picked it up with his tongs and set it on the anvil.
He felt apathetic about the conditions he had observed and did not care to fight against them.
A firm believer in democratic government, she could not understand the apathy of people who never bothered to vote.
She discovered a small aperture in the wall, through which the insects had entered the room.
He was at the apex of his career.
He was suspended for a week because he had aped the principal in front of the whole school.
After the automobile accident, the victim had periods of aphasia when he could not speak at all or could only mumble incoherently.
An aphorism differs from an adage in that it is more philosophical or scientific.
Although he spent many hours daily in the apiary, he was very seldom stung by a bee.
Wellington's nonchalance and aplomb in the heat of battle always heartened his followers.
His apocalyptic remarks were dismissed by his audience as wild surmises.
To impress his friends, Tom invented apocryphal tales of his adventures in the big city.
When the moon in its orbit is furthest away from the earth, it is at its apogee.
He was crippled by an attack of apoplexy.
Because he switched from one party to another, his former friends shunned him as an apostate.
In Holland, apothecaries still sell spices as well as ointments and pills.
Proverbs are apothegms that have become familiar sayings.
The Roman empress Livia envied the late emperor his apotheosis; she hoped that on her death she, too, would be exalted to the rank of a god.
We were appalled by the horrifying conditions in the city's jails.
Hamlet was uncertain about the identity of the apparition that had appeared and spoken to him.
We have discovered that, when we try to appease our enemies, we encourage them to make additional
He was amazed when the witches hailed him with his correct appellation.
I shall append this chart to my report.
Pleased with how well Tom had whitewashed the fence, Aunt Polly praised him for his application.
He was always able to find the apposite phrase, the correct expression for every occasion.
It is difficult to appraise old paintings; it is easier to call them priceless.
Little Orphan Annie truly appreciated the stocks Daddy Warbucks ave her, whose value appreciated considerably over the years.
The police will apprehend the culprit and convict him before long.
His apprehensive glances at the people who were walking in the street revealed his nervousness.
When he was apprised of the dangerous weather conditions, he decided to postpone his trip.
Wanting her parents' regard, she looked for some sign of their approbation.
The ranch owners appropriated the lands that had originally been set aside for the Indians' use.
He bought the estate and all its appurtenances.
I find your remarks apropos of the present situation timely and pertinent.
The counselor evaluated his aptitudes before advising him about the career he should follow.
He can be recognized by his aquiline nose, curved like the beak of the eagle.
The land was no longer arable; erosion had removed the valuable topsoil.
As an arbiter in labor disputes, she has won the confidence of the workers and the employers.
The coach claimed the team lost because the umpire made some arbitrary calls.
She was called upon to arbitrate the dispute between the union and the management.
Walking along the treelined paths of the arboretum, Rita noted poplars, firs, and some particularly fine sycamores.
The arcade was popular with shoppers because it gave them protection from the summer sun and the
What was arcane to us was clear to the psychologist.
The professor of archaeology headed an expedition to the Gobi Desert in search of ancient ruins.
Methinks, "thee," and "thou" are archaic words that are no longer part of our normal vocabulary.
The Brooklyn Bridge was the archetype of the many spans that now connect Manhattan with Long Island
When he looked at the map and saw the archipelagoes in the South Seas, he longed to visit them.
These documents should be part of the archives so that historians may be able to evaluate them in the
Katya's ardor was contagious; soon all her fellow demonstrators were busily making posters and handing out flyers, inspired by her ardent enthusiasm for the cause.
Her arduous efforts had sapped her energy.
In the argot of the underworld, she "was taken for a ride."
At her Metropolitan Opera audition, Marian Anderson sang an aria from Norma.
The cactus had adapted to survive in an arid environment.
Americans have mixed feelings about hereditary aristocracy:
Queen Elizabeth's navy was able to defeat the mighty armada that threatened the English coast.
Medieval sailing vessels brought aromatic herbs from China to Europe.
After his indictment by the Grand Jury, the accused man was arraigned in the County Criminal Court.
His actions were bound to array public sentiment against him.
He was in arrears with his payments on the car.
The arrogance of the nobility was resented by the middle class.
Until the heavy rains of the past spring, this arroyo had been a dry bed.
Her articulate presentation of the advertising campaign impressed her employers.
Archaeologists debated the significance of the artifacts discovered in the ruins of Asia Minor and came to no conclusion.
The Trojan War proved to the Greeks that cunning and artifice were often more effective than military might.
Artists and artisans alike are necessary to the development of a culture.
Red Riding Hood's artless comment, "Grandma, what big eyes you have!" indicates the child's innocent surprises at her "grandmother's" changed appearance.
President Marcos failed to maintain his ascendency over Philippines.
Hospitals succeeded in lowering the mortality rate as soon as they introduced asceptic conditions.
We find asceticism practiced in many monastries.
The wealthy young man could not understand the ascetic life led by the monks.
I can ascribe no motive for her acts.
Her face was ashen with fear.
Your asinine remarks prove that you have not given this problem any serious consideration.
Looking askance at her questioner, she displayed her scorn.
When he placed his hat askew upon his head, his observers laughed.
These remarks, spoken with asperity, stung the boys to whom they had been directed.
Do not cast aspersions on her character.
Although I am as aspirant for public office, I am not willing to accept the dictates of the party bosses.
 Youth's aspirations should be as lofty as the stars.
He was assailed with questions after his lecture.
When they assayed the ore, they found that they had discovered a very rich vein.
It gives me great pleasure to assent to your request.
When Jill asserted that nobody else in the junior class had such an early curfew, her parents Asserted themselves, telling her that if she didn't get home by nine o'clock she would be grounded for the week.
I would like to have your assessment of the situation in South Africa.
It took Rembrandt weeks of assiduous labor before he was satisfied with his portrait of his son.
The manner in which the United States was able to assimilate the hordes of immigrants during the nineteenth and early part of the twentieth centuries will always be a source of pride.
Your messages of cheer should assuage her suffering.
The young princess made the foolish assumption that the regent would not object to her Assumption of
When Gutherie gave Guiness his assurance that rehearsals were going well, he spoke with such assurance
asteroids have become commonplace to the readers of interstellar travel stories in science fiction
As soon as his parents discovered that the boy suffered from astigmatism, they took him to the optometrist for corrective glasses.
She was amazed at the number of astral bodies the new telescope revealed.
The astringent quality of unsweetened lemon juice made swallowing difficult.
The government seemed willing to spend astronomical sums on weapons development.
That was a very astute observation.
Their points of view are poles asunder.
The refugees sought asylum from religious persecution in a new land.
Because one eyebrow was set markedly higher than the other, William's face had a particularly asymmetric appearance.
Martin seemed an atavism to his Tuscan ancestors who lavished great care on their small plots of soil.
His atheistic remarks shocked the religious worshippers.
He knew no way in which he could atone for his brutal crime.
In time of war, many atrocities are committed by invading armies.
Polio victims need physiotherapy to prevent the atrophy of affected limbs.
By withdrawing their forces, the generals hoped to attenuate the enemy lines.
Having served as a member of a grand jury, I can attest that our system of indicting individuals is in need of improvement.
I attribute her success in science to the encouragement she received from her parents.
The enemy surrounded the town and conducted a war of attrition
Audiences cheered as Luke Skywalker and Princess Leia made their audacious, death-defying leap to freedom and escaped Darth Vader's troops.
When the bank examiners arrived to hold their annual audit, they discovered the embezzlements of the chief cashier.
How can we hope to augment our forces when our allies are deserting us?
He interpreted the departures of the birds as an augury of evil.
Visiting the palace at Versailes, she was impressed by the august surroundings in which she found herself.
Many medieval paintings depict saintly characters with aureols around their heads.
The auroral display was particularly spectacular that evening.
With favorable weather conditions, it was an auspicious moment to set sail.
His austere demeanor prevented us from engaging in our usual frivolous activities.
The austerity and dignity of the court were maintained by the new justices, who were a strict and solemn 
An expert was needed to authenticate the original Van Gogh painting, distinguishing it from its imitation.
The people had no control over their destiny; they were forced to obey the dictates of the authoritarian regime.
We accepted her analysis of the situation as authoritative.
He ran his office like an autocrat, giving no one else any authority.
Long before science fiction readers became aware of robots, writers were creating stories of automation who could outperform humans.
This island is a colony; however, in most matters, it is autonomous and receives no orders from the mother country.
The medical examiner ordered an autopsy to determine the cause of death.
To prepare for the emergency, they built an auxiliary power station.
King Midas's avarice has been famous for centuries.
He was averse to revealing the sources of his information.
Their mutual aversion was so great that they refused to speak to one another.
She averted her eyes from the dead cat on the highway.
I wish to aver that I am certain of success.
The aviary at the zoo held nearly 300 birds.
He was avid for learning and read everything he could get.
His hobby proved to be so fascinating and profitable that gradually he abandoned his regular occupation and concentrated on his avocation.
I must avow that I am innocent.
Avuncular pride did not prevent him from noticing his nephew's shortcomings.
The tourists gazed with awe at the tremendous expanse of the Grand Canyon.
She used an awl to punch additional holes in the leather belt she had bought.
He held his head awry, giving the impression that he had caught cold in his neck during the night.
Before a student can begin to think along the lines of Euclidean geometry, he must accept certain principles or axioms.
azure skies are indicative of good weather.
The little girl babbled about her doll.
Emperor Nero attended the bacchanalian orgy.
She was forced to change her telephone number because she was badgered by obscene phone calls.
Her friends at work greeted the news of her engagement with cheerful badinage.
The new code baffled the enemy agents.
The soldiers baited the prisoners, terrorizing them.
Casting a baleful eye at his successful rival, the rejected suitor stole off, vowing to have his revenge.
The chief of police balked at sending his officers into the riot-torn area.
The ship was listing badly to one side; it was necessary to shift the ballast in the hold to get her back on an even keel.
A balmy breeze refreshed us after the sultry blast.
Friendship is the finest balm for the pangs of disappointed love.
His frequent use of cliches made his essay seem banal.
The president refused to bandy words with reporters at the press conference.
Lack of public transportation is the bane of urban life.
They resented his bantering remarks because they misinterpreted his teasing as sarcasm.
The barb from the fishhook caught in his finger as he grabbed the fish.
The ancient bard Homer sang of the fall of Troy.
Shocked by Huck Finn's barefaced lies, Miss Watson prayed the good Lord would give him a sense of his unregenerate wickedness.
Accustomed to the severe, angular lines of modern skyscrapers, they found the flamboyance of baroque architecture amusing.
The company was forced to retreat through the barrage of heavy canyons.
Galsworthy started as a barrister, but when he found the practice of law boring, turned to writing.
The barterer exchanged trinkets for the natives' furs.
basking on the beach, she relaxed so completely that she fell asleep.
The villagers fortified the town hall, hoping this improvised bastion could protect them from the guerrila raids.
Until it was time to open the presents, the children had to bate their curiosity.
The child was delighted with the bauble she had won in the grab bag.
She took offense at his bawdy remarks.
The beatific smile on the child's face made us very happy.
Growing closer to God each day, the mystic achieved a state of indescribable beatitude.
The witch doctors were bedizened in their gaudiest costumes.
We were so bedraggled by the severe storm that we had to change into dry clothing.
His attempts to clarify the situation succeeded only on befuddling her further.
One good turn may deserve another; it does not necessarily beget another.
I begrudge every minute I have to spend attending meetings.
I beguiled himself during the long hours by playing solitaire.
Sportcasters nicknamed the linebacker "The Behemoth."
Since I do not wish to be beholden to anyone, I cannot accept this favor.
In this time of crisis, it behooves all of us to remain calm and await the instructions of our superiors.
The debate coach warned her student not to bore the audience by belaboring his point.
He apologized for his belated note of condolence to the widow of his friend and explained that he had just learned of her husband's untimely death.
As soon as the city was beleaguered, the life became more subdued as the citizens began their long wait for outside assitance.
His coarse, hard-bitten exterior belied his innate sensitivity.
Parents should not belittle their children's early attempts at drawing, but should encourage their efforts.
His bellicose disposition alienated his friends.
Whenever he had too much to drink, he became belligerent and tried to pick fights with strangers.
Jill studied the garbled instructions with a bemused look on her face.
The appearance of the sun after the many rainy days was like a benediction.
Scrooge later became Tiny Tim's benefactor and gave him a benediction.
The overgenerous philanthropist had to curb his beneficent impulses before he gave away all his money and left himself with nothing.
You may change your beneficiary as often as you wish.
His benevolent nature prevented him from refusing any beggar who accosted him.
The old man was well liked because of his benign attitude toward friend and stranger alike.
Let us pray that the benison of peace once more shall prevail among the nations of the world.
bent on advancing in the business world, the secretary heroine of Working Girl had a true bent for high 
In his will, Father bequeathed his watch to Phillip; the bequest meant a great deal to the boy.
He feared she would berate him for his forgetfulness.
His friends gathered to console him upon his sudden bereavement.
The foolish gambler soon found himself bereft of funds.
 he went berserk and began to wreck the room.
Many problems beset the American public school system.
The scandalous remarks in the newspaper besmirch the reputations of every member of the society.
The Red Cross sought to put an end to the bestial treatment of prisoners of war.
He wished to bestow great honors upon the hero.
The announcement that they had become betrothed surprised their friends who had not suspected any romance.
The movie actor was surrounded by a bevy of startlets.
The United States Congress is a bicameral body.
The children bickered morning, noon, and night, exasperating their parents.
The group held biennial meetings instead of annual ones.
With a bifurcated branch and a piece of elastic rubber, he made a crude but effective slingshot.
Brought up in a democratic atmosphere, student was shocked by the bigotry and narrowness expressed by several of his classmates.
His bilious temperament was apparent to all who heard him rant about his difficulties.
The con man specialized in bilking insurance companies.
While in bivouac, we spent the night in our sleeping bags under the stars.
The plot of the novel was too bizarre to be believed.
Although age had blanched his hair, he was still vigorous and energetic.
Despite the salesperson's blandishments, the customer did not buy the outfit.
She used a bland ointment for her sunburn.
Your blase attitude gives your students an erroneous impression of the joys of scholarship.
The people in the room were shocked by his his blasphemous language.
Caught in a blatant lie, the scoundrel had only one regret: he wished that he had lied more subtly.
The Aleutian Islands are bleak military outposts.
The extent of the blighted areas could be seen only when viewed from the air.
Shelley called the skylark a "blithe spirit" because of its happy song.
Her bloated stomach came from drinking so much water.
After all Sol's talk about his big show business connections led nowhere, Sally decided he was just  blowhard.another
His walking stick served him as a bludgeon on many occasions.
 That big bluff doesn't have a nickel to his name
 a bluff, precipitous headland
Claire thought Lord Byron's boast that he would swim the Hellespont was just a bluff, she was astounded when he dove from the high bluff into the waters below.
The criminal's fatal blunder led to his capture.
Before she could stop him, he blurted out the news.
The gloomy skies and the sulfurious odors from the mineral springs seemed to bode evil to those who settled in the area.
The police quickly found the distributors of the bogus twenty-dollar bills.
The unruly crowd became even more boisterous when he tried to quiet them.
The debaters amassed file boxes full of evidence to bolster their arguments.
Filled with bombast, the orator's speech left the audience more impressed with his pomposity than with  his logic.
The recent rains that filled our empty reservoirs were a boon to the whole community.
Though Mr. Potts constantly interrupted his wife, she ignored his boorish behavior, for she had lost hope of teaching him courtesy.
The cup of bouillon served by the stewards was welcomed by those who had been chilled by the cold ocean breezes.
She distributed gifts in a bountiful and gracious manner.
The French Revolution was inspired by the bourgeois, who resented the aristocracy.
Nothing excites Esther; even when she won the state lottery, she still preserved her air of bovine calm.
After the film editors had bowdlerized the language in the script, the motion picture's rating was changed from "R" to "PG."
He found the only wells in the area were brackish; drinking the water made him nauseous.
He was disliked because his manner was always full of braggadocio.
Modest by nature, she was no braggart, preferring to let her accomplishments speak for themselves.
 The bravado of the young criminal disappeared when he was confronted by the victims of his brutal attack.
It takes brawn to become a champion weight-lifter.
Her brazen contempt for authority angered the officials.
They found a breach in the enemy's fortifications and penetrated their lines.
We were impressed by the breadth of her knowledge.
brevity is essential when you send a telegram or cablegram; you are charged for every word.
He was disappointed in the litter because the puppies were brindled; he had hoped for animals of uniform color.
The dog stood there, bristling with anger.
My employer's brittle personality made it difficult for me to get along with her.
He did not even try to broach the subject of poetry.
The sofa was covered with expensive brocade.
This brochure on farming was issued by the Department of Agriculture.
She treasured the brooch because it was an heirloom.
The dean would brook no interference with his disciplinary actions.
Billy resisted Ted's attempts to browbeat him into handing over his lunch money.
She was offended by his brusque reply.
 The meadow was the scene of bucolic gaiety.
John Candy's buffoonery in Uncle Buck was hilarious.
If we become frightened by such bugaboos, we are no wiser than the birds who fear scarecrows.
Much bullion is stored in the vaults at Fort Knox.
The navy is our principal bulwark against invasion.
I was afraid you would bungle his assignment but I had no one else to send.
Many people fear that the constant introduction of federal agencies will create a government by bureaucracy.
In the spring, the plants that burgeon are a promise of the beauty that is to come.
In his caricature, he burlesqued the mannerisms of his adversary.
The burly mover lifted the packing crate with ease.
The maid burnished the brass fixtures until they reflected the lamplight.
Just as architects buttress the walls of cathedrals with flying buttresses, debates buttress their arguments with facts.
High fashion models usually are slender rather than buxom.
The cabal was defeated when its scheme was discovered.
The detectives followed the suspects until he led them to the cache where he had stored his loot.
Some people seem to enjoy the cacophony of an orchestra that is tuning up.
From his cadaverous appearance, we could see how the disease had ravaged him.
In some states, it is illegal to dissect cadavers.
Marching down the road, the troops sang out, following the cadence set by the sergeant.
I will not be cajoled into granting your wish.
As news of the calamity spread, offers of relief poured in to the stricken community.
A man of such caliber should not be assigned such menial tasks.
As we examine ancient manuscripts, we became impressed with the calligraphy of the scribes.
He had worked in the hospital for so many years that he was callous to the suffering in the wards.
In that youthful movement, the leaders were only a little less callow than their immature followers.
Coal is much more calorific than green wood.
He could endure his financial failure, but he could not bear the calumny that his foes heaped upon him.
What he loved best about his job was the sense of camaraderie he and his co-workers shared.
Tourists are advised not to purchase cameos from the street peddlers of Rome who sell poor specimens of the carver's art.
It is almost impossible to protect oneself from such a base canard.
The candor and simplicity of his speech impressed all, it was all clear he held nothing back.
Some days the canine population of Berkeley seems almost to outnumber the human population.
Poverty is a canker in the body politic; it must be cured.
The canny Scotsman was more than a match for the swindlers.
Constantly complaining about his treatment and refusing to cooperate with the hospital staff, he was a cantankerous patient.
The choral society sang the new cantata composed by its leader.
Because the racehorse had outdistanced its competition so easily, the reporter wrote that the race was won in a canter.
Dante's poetic masterpiece The Divine Comedy is divided into cantos.
Angry that the president had slashed the education budget, we dismissed his speech on the importance of education as mere cant.
After canvassing the sentiments of his constituents, the congressman was confident that he represented the majority opinion of his district.
In the capacious areas of the railroad terminal, thousands of travelers lingered while waiting for their train.
The changes in surface tension of liquids in capillary vessels is of special interest to physicists.
The enemy was warned to capitulate or face annihilation.
She was an unpredictable creature, acting on caprice, never taking thought of the consequences.
The storm was capricious and changed course constantly.
I find the captions that accompany these cartoons very clever and humorous.
His criticisms were always captious and frivolous, never offering constructive suggestions.
With each dinner, the patron receives a carafe of red or white wine.
At the children's zoo, Richard perched on top of the giant turtle's hard carapace as it slowly made its way around the enclosure.
He gave her a diamond that weighed three carats and was mounted in an eighteen-carat gold band.
Many supposedly harmless substances have been revealed to be carcinogenic.
If you want to increase your word power, the cardinal rule of vocabulary-building is to read.
The taxicab careened wildly as it rounded the corner.
The caricatures he drew always emphasized personal weaknesses of the people he burlesqued.
The carillon in the bell tower of the Coca-Cola pavilion at the New York World's Fair provided musical entertainment every hour.
The carnage that can be caused by atomic warfare adds to the responsibilities of our statesmen.
The public was more interested in carnal pleasures than in spiritual matters.
The lion is a carnivorous animal.
The party degenerated into an ugly carousal.
Welcoming constructive criticism, Lexy appreciated her editor's comments, finding them free of carping.
Buzzards are nature's scavengers; they eat the carrion left behind by other predators.
Though not a professional cartographer, Tolkien was able to construct a map of the fictional world.
We could not appreciate the beauty of the many cascades as we made detours around each of them to avoid getting wet.
The differences created by caste in India must be wiped out if true democracy is to prevail in that country.
Sensitive even to mild criticism, Woolf could not bear castigation that she found in certain reviews.
The number of automotive casualties on this holiday weekend was high.
A cataclysm such as the French Revolution affects all countries.
Many chemical reactions cannot take place without the presence of a catalyst.
Airplanes are sometimes launched from battleships by catapults.
She gazed with awe at the mighty cataract known as Niagara Falls.
The Johnstown flood was a catastrophe.
He taught by engaging his pupils in a catechism until they gave him the correct answer.
Though the captain claimed he was never, never sick at sea, he finally qualified his categorical denial; he was hardly ever sick at sea.
Aristotle maintained that tragedy created a catharsis by purging the soul of base concepts.
Some drugs act as laxatives when taken in small doses but act as cathartics when taken in much larger doses.
He was extremely catholic in his taste and read everything he could find in the library.
At the opening of Congress the members of the Democratic Party held a caucus to elect the majority leader of the House and the party whip.
When water from the shower leaked into the basement, we knew it was time to caulk the tiles at the edges of the shower stall.
The psychologist maintained there was a causal relationship between the nature of one's early childhood experiences and one's adult personality.
The critic's caustic remarks angered the hapless actors who were the subjects of his sarcasm.
In order to prevent infection, the doctor cauterized the wound.
As described by Chaucer, the cavalcade of Canterbury pilgrims was motley group.
Sensitive about having her ideas taken lightly, Marcia felt insulted by Mark's cavalier dismissal of her suggestion.
I respect your sensible criticisms, but I dislike the way you cavil about unimportant details.
I intend to cede this property to the city.
Hamlet resented his mother's celerity in remarrying within a month after his father's death.
She spoke of the celestial joys that awaited virtuous souls in the hereafter.
Though the late Havelock Ellis wrote extensively about sexual customs and was considered an expert in such matters, recent studies maintain he was celibate throughout his life.
censorious people delight in casting blame.
Soldiers dislike having their mail read by a censor but understand the need for this precaution.
He was censured for his inappropriate behavior.
I was particularly impressed by the statue of the centaur in the Roman Hall of the museum.
On the centigrade thermometer, the freezing point of water is zero degrees.
Many automatic drying machines remove excess moisture from clothing by centrifugal force.
At the dairy, we employ a centrifuge to separate cream from milk.
Does centripetal force or the force of gravity bring orbiting bodies to the earth's surface?
Because he was in command of a company of one hundred soldiers, he was called a centurion.
The content of philosophical works is cerebral in nature and requires much thought.
Mathematics problems sometimes require much cerebration.
Ordinary dress would be in appropriate at so ceremonious an affair.
The workers threatened a cessation of all activities if their demands were not met.
The cession of Alaska to the United States is discussed in this chapter.
The collar chafed his neck.
Sometimes his flippant and chaffing remarks annoy us.
When you separate the wheat from the chaff, be sure you throw out the chaff.
Her refusal to go with us filled us with chagrin.
In a small room adjoining the cathedral, many ornately decorated chalices made by the most famous European goldsmiths were on display.
Like the chameleon, he assumed the political coloration of every group he met.
Martin Luther King, Jr., won the Nobel Peace Prize because he championed the oppressed in their struggle for equality.
He tried to bring order into the chaotic state of affairs.
Political commentators have deplored the importance of a candidate's charisma in these days of television campaigning.
When they realized that the Wizard didn't know how to get them back to Kansas, Dorothy and her friends were sure they'd been duped by a charlatan.
A prudent, thrifty New Englander, DeWitt was as chary of investing money in junk bonds as he was chary of paying people unnecessary compliments.
With his hammer, he carefully chased an intricate design onto the surface of the chalice.
They could not see the bottom of the chasm.
Examining the car after the accident, the owner discovered that the body had been ruined but that the chassis was unharmed.
Whom God loves, God chastens.
Her chaste and decorous garb was appropriately selected for the solemnity of the occasion.
I must chastise you for this offense.
A chauvinist cannot recognize any faults in his country, no matter how flagrant they may be.
During his checkered career he had lived in palatial mansions and in dreary boardinghouses.
He checked the horse at the edge of the cliff
Thrusting out her arm, Grandma checked Bobby's lunge at his sister. "Young man," she said, "you'd better check your temper."
With her cheerful smile and rosy cheeks, she was a particularly cherubic child.
Your deceitful tactics in this case are indications of chicanery.
Grandma began to chide Steven for his lying.
Poe's chimerical stories are sometimes too morbid for reading in bed.
chivalrous behavior involves noble words and good deeds.
His flushed, angry face indicated a choleric nature.
Martha Graham introduced a form of choreography that seemed awkward and alien to those who had been brought up on classic ballet.
The gossip columnist was paid to chronicle the latest escapades of the socially prominent celebrities.
The doctors were finally able to attribute his chronic headaches and nausea to traces of formaldehyde gas in his apartment.
Dismayed by his churlish manners at the party, the girls vowed never to invite him again.
The paramecium is a ciliated, one-celled animal.
She claimed her ex-husband was a total cipher and wondered why she had ever married him.
Lacking his code book, the spy was unable to decode the message sent to him in cipher.
This tiny circlet is very costly because it is set with precious stones.
Because of the traffic congestion on the main highways, she took a circuitous route.
He was afraid to call spade a spade and resorted to circumlocutions to avoid direct reference to his subject.
 Although I do not wish to circumscribe your activities, I must insist that you complete this assignment before you start anything else.
Investigating before acting, she tried always to be circumspect.
In order to circumvent the enemy, we will make two preliminary attacks in other sections before starting our major campaign.
The citadel overlooked the city like a protecting angel.
She could cite passages in the Bible from memory.
Although internal Revenue Service agents are civil servants, they are not always civil to suspected tax evaders.
Cassandra's clairvoyant warning was not heeded by the Trojans.
She clambered over the wall.
The clamor of the children at play outside made it impossible for her to take a nap.
After avoiding their chaperon, the lovers had a clandestine meeting.
The blacksmith was accustomed to the clangor of hammers on steel.
Wishing to be undisturbed by the bell, Dale wound his scarf around the clapper to muffle its striking.
We woke to the clarion to muffle its striking.
His fellow classmates laughed at his claustrophobia and often threatened to lock him in his room.
Even though he wore shoulder pads, the football player broke his clavicle during a practice scrimmage.
The lightening cleaves the tree in two.
Erosion caused a cleft in the huge boulder.
The lawyer was pleased when the case was sent to Judge Smith's chambers because Smith was noted for her clemency toward first offenders.
High school compositions are often marred by such cliches as "strong as an ox."
The rock club attracted a young, stylish clientele.
When he reached the climactic portions of the book, he could not stop reading.
His doctors advised him to move to a milder clime.
She charged that a clique had assumed control of school affairs.
The nuns lived in the cloister.
Gatsby wondered whether he had enough clout to be admitted to the exclusive club.
Disliking the cloying sweetness of standard wedding cakes, Jody and Tom chose a homemade carrot cake for their reception.
Even after you remove the pudding from the burner, it will continue to coagulate as it stands.
The brooks coalesce into one large river.
The piece concluded with a distinctive coda that strikingly brought together various motifs.
Don't coddle the children to much; they need a taste of discipline.
This codicil was drawn up five years after the writing of the original will.
We need to take the varying rules and regulations of the different health agencies and codify them into a national health code.
They forced him to obey, but only by great coercion.
coeval with the dinosaur, the pterodactyl flourished during the Mesozoic era.
She presented cogent arguments to the jury.
cogitate on this problem; the solution will come.
The English word "mother" cognate to the Latin word "mater," whose influence is visible in the words maternal and "maternity."
Though Jack was emotionally immature, his cognitive development was admirable; he was very advanced intellectually.
During the election campaign, the two candidates were kept in full cognizance of the international situation.
A bicycle chain moves through a series of cogs in order to propel the bike.
Solids have a greater tendency to cohere than liquids.
A firm believer in the maxim "Divide and conquer," the emperor, by lies and trickery, sought to disrupt the cohesion ofthe free nations.
Caesar and his Roman cohorts conquered almost all of the known world.
You can make a statement with your choice of coiffure: in the 60's many African-Americans affirmed their racial heritage by wearing their hair in Afros.
Some people find the coincident events in Hardy's novels annoyingly improbable.
Before serving the spaghetti, place it in a colander to drain it.
Two writers collaborated in preparing this book.
Scraps of cloth, paper doilies, and old photographs all went into her collage.
The sum you wish to borrow is so large that it must be secured by collateral.
They collated the newly found manuscripts to determine their age.
Tea sandwiches and cookies were offered at the collation.
Your use of colloquial expressions in a formal essay such as the one you have presented spoils the effect you hope to achieve.
I enjoy our colloquies but I sometimes wish that they could be made more formal and more searching.
The swindlers were found guilty of collusion.
Radio City Music Hall has a colossal stage.
The legendary Colossus of Rhodes, bronze statue of the sun god that dominated the harbor of the Greek seaport, was one of the Seven Wonders of the World.
The long-winded orator soon had his audience in a comatose state.
After the recent outbreak of fires in private homes, the fire commissioner ordered that all combustible materials be kept in safe containers.
I would rather have a poor and comely wife than a rich and homely one.
The roast turkey and other comestibles, the wines, and the excellent service made this Thanksgiving dinner particularly memorable.
After his earlier rudeness, we were delighted to see him get his comeuppance.
A spirit of comity should exist among nations.
The policeman commandeered the first car that approached and ordered the driver to go to the nearest hospital.
The new commemorative stamp honors the late Martin Luther King, Jr.
Your reward will be commensurate with your effort.
Her friends commiserated with the widow.
After sleeping in a small roadside cabins, they found their hotel suite commodious.
When they were divorced, they had trouble dividing their communal property.
The signers of the Mayflower Compact were establishing a form of government.
His short, compact body was better suited to wrestling than to basketball.
They were compatible neighbors, never quarreling over unimportant matters.
The prosecutor presented a well-reasoned case, but the defense attorney's compelling arguments for leniency won over the jury.
This text can serve as a compendium of the tremendous amount of new material being developed in this field.
Can a compensatory education program make up for the inadequate schooling he received in earlier years?
The compilation of available scholarships serves a very valuable purpose.
There was a complacent look on his face as he examined his paintings.
The courtier obeyed the king's orders in a complaisant manner.
The waiter recommended a glass of port to complement the cheese.
The design for the new school had to be in compliance with the local building code.
He was compliant and ready to go along with his friends' desires.
You cannot keep your complicity in this affair secret very long; you would be wise to admit your involvement immediately.
I wish all the components of my stereo system were working at the same time.
He comported himself with great dignity.
Even the latest work crisis failed to shake her composure.
all the organs and members that compound a human body
The makers of the popular cold remedy compounded a nasal decongestant with an antihistamine.
This book provides a comprehensive review of verbal and math skills for the SAT.
She compressed the package under her arm.
If the District of Columbia were to be granted a statehood, the United States of America would comprise fifty-onestates, not just fifty.
Your presence at the scene of the dispute compromises our claim to neutrality in this matter.
The judge was especially severe in this sentencing because he felt that the criminal had shown no compunction for his heinous crime.
He failed to compute the interest, so his bank balance was not accurate.
 It is difficult to understand how these events could concatenate as they did without outside assistance.
The back-packers found partial shelter from the storm by huddling against the concave wall of the cliff.
Despite all the evidence Monica had assembled, Mark refused to concede that she was right.
He was an entertaining companion, always expressing himself in amusing conceits and witty turns of phrase.
The target was made of concentric circles.
At the first conception of the work, he was consulted.
The girl scouts in the troop made a concerted effort to raise funds for their annual outing, and emitted a concerted sigh when their leader announced that they had reached their goal.
Before they could reach an agreement, both sides had to make certain concessions.
She was still angry despite his conciliatory words.
When you define a new word, be concise; the shorter the definition, the easier it is to remember.
He was present at all their conclaves as an unofficial observer.
When the stolen books turned up in John's locker, we finally had conclusive evidence of the identity of the mysterious thief.
How did the inventive chef ever concoct such strange dish?
Culture is not always a concomitant of wealth.
Watching Tweediedum and Tweedledee battle, Alice wondered why the two brothers could not manage to life in concord.
In America, the colonists were resisting the demands of the mother contry; at the concurrent moment in France, the middle class was sowing the seeds of rebellion.
Did you concur with the decision of the court or did you find it unfair?
The king condescended to grant an audience to the friends of the condemned man.
The public approved the condign punishment for the crime.
Spanish food is full of condiments.
His friends gathered to condole with him over his loss.
Unlike Widow Douglass, who condoned Huck's minor offenses, Miss Watson did nothing but scold.
Rest and proper diet are conducive to good health.
Water was brought to the army in the desert by an improvised conduit from the adjoining mountain.
He had no confidants with whom he could discuss his problems at home.
The army confiscated all available supplies of uranium.
In the conflagration that followed the 1906 earthquake, much of San Francisco was destroyed.
They built the city at the confluence of two rivers.
In conformity with our rules and regulations, I am calling a meeting of our organization.
No mystery could confound Sherlock Holmes for long.
His blood congealed in his veins as he saw the dread monster rush toward him.
My father loved to go out for a meal with congenial companions.
His congenital deformity disturbed his parents.
In such a conglomeration of miscellaneous statistics, it was impossible to find a single area of analysis.
The student demonstrated the congruence of the two triangles by using the hypotenuse-arm theorem.
According to geologists, the conifers were the first plants to bear flowers.
I will end all your conjectures; I admit I am guilty as charged.
Their dreams of conjugal bliss were shattered as soon as their temperaments clashed.
He conjured up an image of a reformed city and had the voters completely under his spell.
With the connivance of his friends, he plotted to embarrass the teacher.
She had developed into a connoisseur of fine china.
Foreigners frequently are unaware of the connotations of the words they use.
In his telegram, he wished the newlyweds a lifetime of connubial bliss.
The lawsuit developed into a test of the consanguinity of the claimant to the estate.
A conscientious editor checked every definition for its accuracy.
Did Rambo volunteer to fight in Vietnam, or was he a conscript, drafted against his will?
We shall consecrate our lives to this noble purpose.
The consensus indicates that we are opposed to entering into this pact.
Convinced of his own importance, the actor strutted about the dressing room with a consequential air.
A gifted violinist, Marya was selected to study at the conservatory.
The court consigned the child to her paternal grandmother's care.
Holmes judged puddings and explanations on their consistency; he liked his puddings without lumps and his explanations without improbabilities.
When her father died, Marius did his best to console Cosette.
Her agitation seemed out of consonance with her usual calm.
We frequently judge people by the company with whom they consort.
The search for a consort for the young Queen Victoria ended happily.
Brutus and Cassius joined in the conspiracy to kill Julius Caesar.
The congressman received hundreds of letters from angry constituents after the Equal Rights Amendment failed to pass.
There was a feeling of constraint in the room because no one dared to criticize the speaker.
If I construe your remarks correctly, you disagree with the theory already advanced.
I have never seem anyone who makes as many stupid errors as you do; you must be a consummate idiot.
Fearing contagion, they took drastic steps to prevent the spread of the disease.
The sewage system of the city so contaminated the water that swimming was forbidden.
Even if you feel superior to others, it is unwise to show your contempt for them.
In Revolt of the Black Athlete, sociologist Harry Edwards contends that young black athletes have been exploited by some college recruiters.
We heard loud and contentious noises in the next room.
Raju won first prize in Drawing Contest
The defeated candidate attempted to contest the election results.
Because these lines are taken out of context, they do not convey the message the author intended.
The two countries are contiguous for a few miles; then they are separated by the gulf.
She vowed to lead a life of continence.
The continuation of this contract is contingent on the quality of your first output.
As the effects of the opiate wore away, the contortions of the patient became more violent and
The coast guard tries to prevent contraband in U.S. waters.
Mr. Barrett did not expect his frail daughter Elizabeth to contravene his will by eloping with Robert Browning.
Her contrite tears did not influence the judge when he imposed sentence.
Feeling ill at ease with his new in-laws; James made a few contrived attempts at conversation and then retreated into silence.
To controvert your theory will require much time but it is essential that we disprove it.
The contumacious mob shouted defiantly at the police.
 She was treated for contusions and abrasions.
During the long car ride, she invented conundrums to entertain the children.
Because much is needed legislation had to be enacted, the governor ordered the legislature to convene in special session by January 15.
His conventional upbringing left him wholly unprepared for his wife's eccentric family.
Flying in the face of convention, George Sand (Amandine Dudevant) shocked her contemporaries by taking lovers and wearing men's clothes.
Marchers converged on Washington for the great Save Our Cities-Save Our Children March.
The lawyer is conversant with all the evidence.
The inevitable converse of peace is not war but annihilation.
John is a converted Christian
On his trip to Japan, though the President spoke at length about the merits of American automobiles, he made few converts to his beliefs.
He polished the convex lens of his telescope.
During the transit strike, commuters used various kinds of conveyances.
Nothing could shake his conviction that she was innocent.
When he approached the dais, he was greeted by cheers from the people who had come to honor him.
Laertes told Ophelia that Hamlet could only dally with her affections.
The walls of the dungeon were dank and slimy.
In "The Odd Couple," Tony Randall played Felix Unger, an excessively dapper soul who could not stand to have a hair out of place.
The sunlight filtering though the screens created a dappled effect on the wall.
From the way he daubed his paint on the canvas, I could tell he knew nothing of oils.
Despite the dangerous nature of the undertaking, the dauntless soldier volunteered for the assignment.
Your threats cannot daunt me.
Inasmuch as we must meet a deadline, do not dawdle over this work.
The negotiations had reached a deadlock.
We wanted to see how long he could maintain his deadpan expression.
The dearth of skilled labor compelled the employers to open trade schools.
 This debacle in the government can only result in anarchy.
Do not debase youself by becoming maudlin.
A vicious newspaper can debauch public ideals.
Overindulgence debilitates character as well as physical stamina.
The debonair youth was liked by all who met him, because of his cheerful and obliging manner.
A full year after the earthquake in Mexico City, workers were still carting away the debris.
Pointing out that he conhsistently had voted afainst strenghtening antipollution legislation, reporters debunked the candidate's claim that he was a fervent environmentalist.
As a debutante, she was often mentioned in the society columns of the newspapers.
The moral decadence of the people was reflected in the lewd literature of the period.
Be sure to decant this wine before serving it.
They did not hang Lady Jane Grey; they decapitated her.
Seeing the emergency blinkers in the road ahead, he decelerated quickly.
The oak is a deciduous tree.
We do more to decimate our population in automobile accidents than we do in war.
I could not decipher the doctor's handwriting.
The children loved to ski down the declivity.
Fashion decrees that evening gowns be decollete this season; bare shoulders are again the vogue.
Despite the body's advanced state of decomposition, the police were able to identify the murdered man.
Shocked by the unruly behavior, the teacher criticized the class for its lack of decorum.
The wild ducks were not fooled by the decoy.
I was unprepared for the state of decrepitude in which I had found my old friend; he seemed to have aged twenty years in six months.
The founder of the Children's Defense Fund, Marian Wright Edelman, strongly decries the lack of financial and moral support for children in America today.
If we accept your premise, your conclusions are easily deducible.
If you deface a library book, you will have to pay a hefty fine.
Such defamation of character may result in a slander suit.
As a result of her husband's failure to appear in court, she was granted a divorce by default.
If you maintain your defeatist attitude, you will never succeed.
The children, who had made him an idol, were hurt most by his defection from our cause.
In deference to his desires, the employers granted him a holiday.
The hoodlums defiled the church with their scurrilous writing.
Carl Sandburg's Abraham Lincoln may be regarded as the definitive work on the life of the Great Emancipator.
His life was saved when his cigarette case deflected the bullet.
In Vietnam the army made extensive use of chemical agents to defoliate the woodlands.
Her employer offered to defray the costs of her postgraduate education.
We knew the minister had violated church regulations, but we had not realized his offense was serious enough to cause him to be defrocked.
The deft waiter uncorked the champagne without spilling a drop.
The lawyers sought to examine the books of the defunct corporation.
As the fight dragged on, the champion's style degenerated until he could barely keep on his feet.
The degraded wretch spoke only of his past glories and honors.
Vigorous dancing quickly dehydrates the body; between dances, be sure to drink more water than normal.
Admire the rock star all you want; just don't deify him.
He felt that he would debase himself if he deigned to answer his critics.
Workers in nuclear research must avoid the deleterious effects of radioactive substances.
If you delete this paragraph, the composition will have more appeal.
Offered the new job, she asked for time to deliberate before she made her decision.
He is weakest when he attempts to delineate character.
The drunkard in his delirium saw strange animals.
His dissertation discussed the effect of intermittent flooding on the fertility of the Nile delta.
Do not delude yourself into believing that he will relent.
When we advertised the position, we received a deluge of applications.
This scheme is a snare and a delusion.
Do not raise your hopes on the basis of his delusive promises.
delving into old books and manuscripts is part of a researcher's job.
He was accused of being a demogogue because he made promises that aroused futile hopes in his listeners.
His sober demeanor quieted the noisy revelers.
He felt that he would demean himself if he replied to the scurrilous letter.
She became increasingly demented and had to be hospitalized.
Upon the demise of the dictator, a bitter dispute about succession to power developed.
In conducting a survey, one should take into account demographic trends in the region.
One of the major aims of the air force was the complete demolition of all means of transportation by the bombing of rail lines and the terminals.
The Spanish Inquisition devised many demoniac means of torture.
He lamented the passing of aristocratic society and maintained that a demotic society would lower the nation's standards.
She was demure and reserved.
To demur at this time will only worsen the already serious situation; now is the time for action.
All attempts to denigrate the character of our late President have failed; the people still love him and cherish his memory.
Ghosts are denizens of the land of the dead who return to earth.
A dictionary will always give us the denotation of a word; frequently, it will always give us its connotation.
The play was childishly written; the denouement was obvious to sophisticated theatergoers as early as the middle of the first act.
The reform candidate denounced the corrupt city officers for having betrayed the public's trust.
In this book, the author depicts the slave owners as kind and benevolent masters.
We must wait until we deplete our present inventory before we order replacements.
Although I deplore the vulgarity of your language, I defend your right to express yourself freely.
The general ordered the battalion to deploy in order to meet the offensive of the enemy.
The army attempted to depose the king and set up a military government.
He made his deposition in the judge's chamber.
The depravity of the tyrant's behavior shocked us all.
A firm believer in old-fashioned courtesy, Miss Post deprecated the modern tendency to address new acquaintances by their first names.
If you neglect this properly, it will depreciate.
After the depredations of the invaders, the people were penniless.
He had to be institutionalized because he was deranged.
The corporal who fell asleep while on watch was thrown into the guardhouse for being derelic in his duty.
The people derided his grandiose schemes.
They greeted his proposal with derision and refused to consider it seriously.
Although her early poetry was clearly derivative in nature, the critics thought she had promise and eventually would find her own voice.
I advise you to consult a dermatologist about your acne.
I resent your derogatory remarks.
In the distance, we could barely descry the enemy vessels.
The soldiers desecrated the temple.
A tour of this smokehouse will give you an idea of how the pioneers used to desiccate food in order to preserve it.
The bandits desolated the countryside, burning farms and carrying off the harvest.
Butch Cassidy was a bold desperado with a price on his head.
Your despicable remarks call for no reply.
I despise your attempts at a reconciliation at this time and refuse to meet you.
If you do not yield, I am afraid the enemy will despoil the countryside.
To the dismay of his parents, he became more and more depondent every day.
The people rebelled against the despotism of the king.
The costs of the father's illness left the family destitute.
In prison Malcolm X set himself the task of reading straight through the dictionary; to him reading was purposeful, not desultory.
A psychoanalyst must maintain a detached point of view and stay uninvolved with her patients' perssonal lives.
At the royal wedding, the procession of the nobles followed a determinate order of precedence.
Does the threat of capital punishment serve as a deterrent to potential killers?
The detonation of the bomb could be heard miles away.
He is offended by your frequent detractions of his ability as a leader.
Your acceptance of her support will ultimately prove detrimental rather than helpful to your cause.
Do not deviate from the truth; you must face the facts.
Your devious behavior in this matter puzzles me since you are usually direct and straightforward.
He was devoid of any personal desire for gain in his endeavor to secure improvement in the community.
It devolved upon us, the survivors, to arrange peace terms with the enemy.
A devotee of the opera, he bought season tickets every year.
The devout man prayed daily.
The magician was so dexterous that we could not follow his movements as he performed his tricks.
This scheme is so diabolical that I must reject it.
The king's diadem was on display at the museum.
I am not skilled in dialectic and therefore, cannot answer your arguments as forcefully as I wish.
They saw the burglar clearly through the diaphanous curtain.
During the lengthy diatribe delivered by his opponent he remained calm and self-controlled.
The dichotomy of our legislative system provides us with many safeguards.
She repeated the statement as though it were the dictum of the most expert worker in the group.
The didactic qualities of his poetry overshadow its literary qualities; the lesson he teaches is more memorable than the lines.
In coining pennies, workers at the old mint squeezed sheets of softened copper between two dies.
You must overcome your diffidence if you intend to become a salesperson.
Your composition suffers from a diffusion of ideas; try to be more compact.
Nobody minded when Professor Renoir's lectures wandered away from their offical theme; his digressions were always more fascinating than the topic of the day.
We felt that the dilapidated building needed several coats of paint.
In the dark, the pupils of your eyes dilate.
Your dilatory tactics may compel me to cancel the contract.
In this dilemma, he knew no one to whom he could turn for advice.
He was not serious in his painting; he was rather a dilettante.
Her employers were greatly impressed by her diligence and offered her a partnership in the firm.
She preferred her coffee diluted with milk.
The blockaders hoped to achieve victory as soon as the diminution of the enemy's supplies became serious.
In the film Lifeboat, an ill-assorted group of passengers from a sunken ocean liner are marooned at sea in a dinghy.
Refusing to be depressed by her dingy studio apartment, Bea spent the weekend polishing the floors and windows and hanging bright posters on the walls.
By dint of much hard work, the volunteers were able to control the raging forest fire.
The din of the jackhammers outside the classroom window drowned out the lecturer's voice.
Because they dramatically pose actual stuffed animals against realistic painted landscapes, the dioramas at the Museum of Natural History particularly impress high school biology students.
People ignored her dire predictions of an approaching depression.
The funeral dirge stirred us to tears.
I will attempt to diabuse you of your impression of my client's guilt; I know he is innocent.
Once the most loyal of Gorbachev's supporters, Shverdnaze found himself becoming increasingly disaffected.
The conservative father viewed his daughter's radical boyfriend with disapprobation.
After the New Year's party, the once orderly house was in total disarray.
His disavowal of his part in the conspiracy was not believed by the jury.
The chess club disbanded after its disastrous initial season.
When you disburse money on the company's behalf, be sure to get a receipt.
The ships in the harbor were not discernible in the fog.
Because he was considered the most discerning member of the firm, he was assigned the most difficult cases.
If I grant you this previlege, will you disclaim all other rights?
Although competitors offered him bribes, he refused to disclose any information about his company's forthcoming product.
The novice square dancer became so discombobulated that he wandered into wrong set.
This ruse will discomfit the enemy.
The lawyer was disconcerted by the evidence produced by her adversary.
The death of his wife left him disconsolate.
She tried to unite the discordant factions.
Shopping malls offer huge discounts
Be prepared to discount what he has to say about his ex-wife.
The young Plato was drawn to the Agora to hear the philosophical discourse of Socrates and his followers.
The campaign was highly negative in tone; each candidate tried to discredit the other.
The police noticed some discrepancies in his description of the crime and did not believe him.
The universe is composed of discrete bodies.
Use your discretion in this matter and do not discuss it with anyone.
They feared he lacked sufficient discrimination to judge complex works of modern art.
They were annoyed and bored by her discursive remarks.
You make enemies of all you disdain.
Before the passengers could disembark, they had to pick up their passports from the ship's purser.
The imposition if the poll tax effectively disenfranchised poor Southern blacks, who lost their right to vote.
A standard movie routine involves the hero's desperate attempt to disengage a railroad car from a moving train.
An ugly frown disfigured his normally pleasant face.
Unwilling to disgorge the cash he had stolen from the pension fund, the embezzler tried to run away.
The passengers were disgruntled by the numerous delays.
His failure to pass the bar exam disheartened him.
Your disheveled appearance will hurt your chances in this interview.
Some mornings I feel a great disinclination to get out of bed.
Although he was young, his remarks indicated that he was disingenous.
The only disinterested person in the room was the judge.
They disinterred the body and held an autopsy.
His remarks were so disjointed that we could not follow his reasoning.
Thrusting her fist up under the choking man's lower ribs, Margaret used the Heimlich maneuver to dislodge the food caught in this throat.
When the show closed, they dismantled the scenery before restoring it.
When the Austrian Empire was dismembered, several new countries were established.
Believing in John's love for her, she dismissed the notion that he might be unfaithful.
Do not disparage anyone's contribution; these little gifts add up to large sums.
It is difficult, if not impossible, to organize these disparate elements into a coherent whole.
The disparity in their ages made no difference at all.
In a dispassionate analysis of the problem, he carefully examined the causes of the conflict and proceeded to suggest suitable remedies.
Young Napoleon defeated the enemy with all possible dispatch; he then sent a dispatch to headquarters, informing his commander of the great victory.
The bright sunlight eventually dispelled the morning mist.
The police fired tear gas into crowd to disperse the protesters.
The coach used all the tricks at his command to buoy up the enthusiasm of his team, which I had become dispirited at the loss of the star player.
The popularity of Florida as a winter resort is constantly increasing; each year, thousands more disport themselves at Miami and Palm Beach.
People avoided discussing contemporary problems with him because of his disputatious manner.
In his disquisition, he outlined the steps he had taken in reaching his conclusions.
The dissection of frogs on the laboratory is particularly unpleasant to some students.
Even though John tried to dissemble his motive for taking modern dance, we all knew there not to dance but to meet girls.
The invention of the radio helped propagandists to disseminate their favorite doctrines very easily.
In a landmark Supreme Court decision, Justice Marshall dissented from the majority opinion.
In order to earn a graduate degree from many of our universities, a candidate is frequently required to prepare a dissertation on some scholarly subject.
In the purge that followed the student demonstrations at Tianamen Square, the government hunted down the dissident students and their supporters.
She tried to dissimulate her grief by her exuberant attitude.
The young man quickly dissipated his inheritance and was soon broke.
The profligacy and dissolution of life in Caligula's Rome appall some historians.
Some contemporary musicians deliberately use dissonance to achieve certain effects.
He could not dissuade his friend from joining the conspirators.
 His distant greeting made me feel unwelcome from the start.
I can tell when he is under stress by the way the veins distend on his forehead.
A moonshiner distills mash into whiskey; an epigrammatist distills thoughts into quips.
It is difficult to believe the newspaper accounts of this event because of the distortions and exaggerations of the reporters.
Because of his concentration on the problem, the professor often appeared distrait and unconcerned about routine.
The distraught parents frantically searched the ravine for their lost child.
A farmer cannot neglect his diurnal tasks at any time; cows, for example, must be milked regularly.
Although world famous as a diva, she did not indulge in fits of temerament.
The two witnesses presented the jury with remarkably divergent accounts of the same epipode.
The spokes of the wheel diverge from the hub.
There are diverse ways of approaching this problem.
After studying for several hours, he needed a diversion from work.
The diversity of colleges in this country indicates that many levels of ability are being served.
He was divested of his power to act and could no longer govern.
Nothing infuriated Tom more than Aunt Polly's ability to divine when he was not telling the truth.
I will not tell you this news because I am sure you will divulge it prematurely.
As docile as he seems today, that old lion was once a ferocious, snarling beast.
The case of Smith v. Jones was entered in the docket for July 15.
Weng had hoped that the student-led democracy movement might bring about change in China, but the repressive response of the doctrinaire hard-liners crushed his dreams of democracy.
She kept all the receipts from her business trip in order to document her expenses for the firm.
Although he is not as yet a doddering and senile old man, his ideas and opinions no longer can merit the respect we gave them years ago.
A gentleman used to doff his hat to a lady.
Les Miserables tells of Inspector Javert's long, dogged pursuit of the criminal Jean Valjean.
Although we find occasional snatches of genuine poetry in her work, most of her writing is mere doggerel.
Do not be so dogmatic about that statement; it can be easily refuted.
Once the excitement of meeting her deadline was over, she found herself in the doldrums.
He found the dolorous lamentations of the bereaved family emotionally disturbing and he left as quickly as he could.
I thought I was talking to a mature audience; instead, I find myself addressing a pack of dolts.
Althoughhis legal domicile was in New York City, his work kept him away from his residence for many years.
Students prefer teachers who guide, not ones who domineer.
When Clark Kent had to don his Superman outfit, he changed clothes in a convenient phone booth.
Sometimes dormant talents in our friends surprise those of us who never realize how gifted our
In remodeling the attic into a bedroom, we decided that we needed to put in dormers to provide sufficient ventilation for the new room.
A shark may be identified by its dorsal fin, which projects above the surface of the ocean.
Ordered by J. Edgar Hoover to investigate the senator, the FBI compiled a complete dossier.
In his dotage, the old man bored us with long tales of events in his childhood.
Not only grandmothers bore you with stories about their brilliant grandchildren; grandfathers dote on the littel rascals, too.
The man was dour abd taciturn.
They doused each other with hoses and balloons.
She tried to change her dowdy image by buying a fashionable new wardrobe.
Cheerful and optimistic by nature, Beth was never downcast despite the difficulties she faced.
The Dutch woman's drab winter coat contrasted with the distinctive, colorful native costume she wore beneath it.
David poured the wine carefully to avoid stirring up the dregs.
He was a popular guest because his droll anecdotes were always entertaining.
Content to let his wife support him, the would-be writer was in reality nothing but a drone.
On a gorgeous day, who wants to be stuck in a classroom listening to the teacher drone?
Many methods have been devised to separate the valuable metal from the dross.
Cinderella's fairy godmother rescued her from a life of drudgery.
He has the dubious distinction of being the lowest man in his class.
Copper wire has many industrial uses because of its extreme ductility.
The dulcet sounds of the birds at dawn were soon drowned out by the roar of traffic passing our motel.
While the gullible Watson often was made a dupe by unscrupulous parties, Sherlock Holmes was far more difficult to fool.
The hostages were held under duress until the prisoners' demands were met.
The dutiful child grew up to be a conscientious adult aware of his civic obligations.
They spent so much money that their funds dwindled to nothing.
A dynamic government is necessary to meet the demands of a changing society.
All the talk about rich food made him feel dyspeptic.
His earthy remarks often embarrassed the women in the audience.
His fortunes began to ebb during the recession.
His ebullient nature could not be repressed.
Some of his friends tried to account for his rudeness to strangers as the eccentricity of genius.
The comet passed close by the earth in its eccentric orbit.
The minister donned his ecclesiastic garb and walked to the pulpit.
His style of interior decoration was eclectic: bits and pieces of furnishings from widely divergent periods, strikingly juxtaposed to create a unique color.
The new stock market high eclipsed the previous record set in 1985.
The ecologist was concerned that the new dam would upset the natural balance of the creatures living in Glen Canyon.
Reading the epigrams of Pope, I admire the economy of his verse: in few words he conveys worlds of meaning.
The announcement that the war had ended brought on an ecstasy that resulted in many uncontrolled celebrations.
The water in the tide pool was still, except for an occasional eddy.
Although his purpose was to edify and not to entertain his audience, many of his listeners were amused and not enlightened.
In that eerie setting, it was easy to believe in ghosts and other supernatural beings.
The coin had been handled so many times that its data had been effaced.
If we are to succeed, we must seek effectual means of securing our goals.
His voice was high-pitched and effeminate.
Nothing depressed her for long; her natural effervescence soon reasserted itself.
The literature of the age reflected the effete condition of the writers; no new ideas were forthcoming.
The efficacy of this drug depends on the regularity of the dosage.
The mob showed its irritation by hanging the judge in effigy.
Air pollution has become a serious problem in our major cities; the effluvium and the poisons in the air are hazards to life.
She had the effrontery to insult the guest.
The critics objected to her literary effusion because it was too flowery.
Her effusive manner of greeting her friends finally began to irritate them.
His egoism prevented him from seeing the needs of his colleagues.
She thought so much of herself that we found her egotism unwarranted and irritating.
She was an egregious liar; we all knew better than to believe a word she said.
Barnum's sign "To the Egress" fooled many people who thought they were going to see an animal and instead found themselves in the street.
He could not repress an ejaculation of surprise when he heard the news.
Tell what happened simply, without any elaboration.
Grinning from ear to ear, Bonnie Blair was clearly elated by her Olympic victory.
On the death of Edward King, Milton composed the elegy "Lycidas."
The detectives tried to elicit where he had hidden his loot.
The news of her chance to go abroad acted on her like an elixir.
Sometimes an ellipsis can lead to a dangling modifier, as in the sentence "Once dressed, you should refrigerate the potato salad.
An elliptical billiad ball wobbles because it is not perfectly round; an elliptical remark baffles because it is not perfectly clear.
The crowds were stirred by Martin Luther King's eloquence.
He was called upon to elucidate the disputed points in his article.
His elusive dreams of wealth were costly to those of his friends who supported him financially.
An afternoon sail on the bay was for her an elysian journey.
His long period of starvation had left him emaciated.
A strong odor of sulfur emanated from the spring.
At first, the attempts of the Abolitioninst to emancipate the slaves were unpopular in New England as well as in the South.
As a result of the embargo, trade with colonies was at a standstill.
In devoting herself to the study of gorillas, Dian Fossey embarked on a course of action that was to cost her her life.
Tales of actual historical figures like King Alfred have become embedded in legends.
 My mother-in-law's stories about her journey from Russia made us laugh because she embellished the bare facts of her travels with humourous acecdotes.
The bank teller confessed his embezzlement of the funds.
He became embroiled in the heated discussion when he tried to arbitrate the dispute.
The evil of class and race hatred must be eliminated while it is still in an embryonic state; otherwise, it may grow to dangerous proportions.
Please initial all the emendations you have made in this contract.
The critic emended the book by retranslating several passages.
The use of an emetic like mustard is useful in cases of poisoning.
After his appointment to this emiment position, he seldom had time for his former friends.
The secretary of State was sent as the President's special emissary to the conference on disarmament.
He applied an emollient to the inflamed area.
In addition to the emolument this position offers, you must consider the social prestige it carries with it.
What made Ann such a fine counselor was her empathy, her ability to put herself in her client's place and feel his emotions as if they were her own.
He distrusted hunches and intuitive flashes; he placed his reliance entirely on empirical data.
As long as our political leaders emulate the virtues of the great leaders of this country, we shall flourish.
Narcissus became enamored of his own beauty.
The Vatican is an independent enclave in Italy.
Some critics believe that his encomiastic statements about Napoleon were inspired by his desire for material advancement rather than by an honest belief in the Emperor's genius.
Uneasy with the encomiums expressed by his supporters, Tolkien felt unworthy of such high praise.
Although we were encompassed by enemy forces, we were cheerful for we were well stocked and could withstand a siege until our allies joined us.
The encroachment of the factories upon the neighborhood lowered the value of the real estate.
Some people encumber themselves with too much luggage, when they take short trips.
Your gifts and endearments cannot make me forget your earlier insolence.
This disease is endemic in this part of the world; more than 80 percent of the population are at one time or another affected by it.
Everyone waited to see which one of the rival candidates for the city council the mayor would endorse.
He was endued with a lion's courage.
Keats believed in the enduring power of great art, which outlast its creator's brief lives.
Rather than exhausting Maggie, dancing energized her.
She was slow to recover from her illness; even a short walk to the window evervated her.
Although blacks were enfranchised shortly after the Civil War, women did not receive the right to vote until 1920.
Your case has engaged my interest, my lord, said Holmes, "You many engage my services."
To receive praise for real accomplishments engenders self-confidence in a child.
John was so engrossed in his studies that he did not hear his mother call.
Your chances for promotion in this department will be enhanced if you take some more courses in evening school.
Many have sought to fathom the enigmatic smile of the Mona Lisa.
Depite all attempts to decipher the code, it remained an enigma.
The owners of the company asked the court to enjoin the union from picketing the plant.
At Camp David President Carter labored to bring an end to the enmity that prevented Egypt and Israel from living in peace.
The monotonous routine of hopital life induced a feeling of ennui which made him moody and irritable.
He did not realize the enormity of his crime until he saw what suffering he had caused.
The audience was enraptured by the freshness of the voices and the excellent orchestration.
The parents thought that their children were ensconced safely in the private school and decided to leave for Europe.
The evils that ensued were the direct result of the miscalculations of the leaders.
From the moment he saw her picture, he was enthralled by her beauty.
She always tried to entice her baby brother into mischief.
As soon as the charter was adopted, the United Nations became an entity and had to be considered as a factor in world diplomacy.
I found entomology the least interesting part of my course in biology; studying insects bored me.
Shafts of sunlight on a wall could entrance her and leave her spellbound.
She entreated her father to let her stay out till midnight.
Because of his wealth and social position, he had entree into the most exclusive circles.
Opponents of our present tax program argue that it discourages entrepreneurs from trying new fields of
Huck hung his head in shame as Miss Watson enumerated his many flaws.
How will people understand you if you do not enunciate?
Paris was environed by a wall
It has taken eons for our civilization to develop.
The shoulder loops on Sam Spade's trench coat are the nonmilitary counterparts of the fringed epaulets on George Washington's uniform.
The mayfly is an ephemeral creature.
epicures frequent this restaurant because it features exotic wines and dishes.
Kurosawa's film Seven Samurai is an epic portraying the struggle of seven warriors to destroy a band of robbers.
Poor Richard's epigrams made Benjamin Franklin famous.
The audience was so disappointed in the play that many did not remain to hear the epilogue.
Though he tried to follow the plot of Gravity's Rainbow, John found the novel too episodic.
What is more important, a knowledge of nature of the nature of knowledge? the epistemologist asked the naturalist.
In his will, he dictated the epitaph he wanted placed on his tombstone.
So many kings of France were named Charles that modern students need epithets to tell them apart: Charles the Wise, for example, was someone far different from Charles the Fat.
Singing "I am the very model of a modern Major-General" in The Pirates of Penzance, Major-General Stanley proclaimed himself the epitome of an officer and a gentleman.
The glacial epoch lasted for thousands of years.
After the hot summers and cold winters of New England, he found the climate of the West Indies equable and pleasant.
In his later years, he could look upon the foolishness of the world with equanimity and humor.
These paths in the park are reserved for equestrians and their steeds.
After the divorce, he needed some time to regain his equilibrium.
His long, bony face had an equine look to it.
The vernal equinox is usually marked by heavy rainstorms.
The high-wire acrobat used his pole as an equipose to overcome the swaying caused by the wind.
I am seeking an equitable solution to this dispute, one which will be fair and acceptable to both sides.
Our courts guarantee equity to all.
Macbeth was misled by the equivocal statements of the witches.
The audience saw through his attempts to equivocate on the subject under discussion and ridiculed his remarks.
The limestone was eroded by the dripping water
The erotic passages in this novel should be removed as they are merely pornographic.
Many a charming tale has been written about the knights-errant who helped the weak and punished the guilty during the Age of Chivalry.
Investors become anxious when the stock market appears erratic.
I thought my answer was correct, but it was erroneous.
His erudite writing was difficult to read because of the many allusions which were unfamiliar to most readers.
The headmaster could not regard this latest escapade as a boyish joke and expelled the young man.
He tried to eschew all display of temper.
New Yorker short stories often include esoteric allusions to obscure people and events: the implication is if you are in the in-crowd, you'll get the reference; if you come from Cleveland, you won't.
In order to maintain its power, the government developed a system of espionage that penetrated every hosehold.
She was always ready to espouse a worthy cause.
I esteem Ezra Pound both for his exciting poetry and for his acute comments on literature.
The estranged wife sought a divorce.
Visitors were impressed by her ethereal beauty, her delicate charm.
Intolerance between ethnic groups is deplorable and usually is based on lack of information.
Sociology is one aspect of the science of ethnology.
Seeing how tenderly Spaniards treated her small daughter made author Barbara Kingsolver aware of how greatly children were valued in the Spanish ethos.
A knowledge of etymology can help you on many English tests.
It is easier to apply eugenic principles to the raising of racehorses or prize cattle than t the development of human beings.
To everyone's surprise, the speech was eulogistic rather than critical in tone.
All the eulogies of his friends could not remove the sting of the calumny heaped upon him by his enemies.
The expression "he passed away" is a euphemism for "he died."
Noted for its euphony even when it is spoken, the Italian language is particularly pleasing to the ear when sung.
Jill's been on cloud nine ever since Jacj asked her out, said Betty, dismissing her friend's euphoria.
Many people support euthanasia for terminally ill patients who wish to die.
For a brief moment, the entire skyline was bathed in an orange-red hue in the evanescent rays of the sunset.
Your evasive answers convinced the judge that you were witholding important evidence.
Do men and women receive evenhanded treatment from their teachers, or, as recent studies suggest, do teachers pay more attention to male students than to females?
When he tried to answer the questions, he evinced his ignorance of the subject matter.
He evoked much criticism by his hostile manner.
The flock of sheep was made up of dozens of ewes, together with only a handful of rams.
This latest arrest will exacerbate the already existing discontent of the people and enrage them.
The colonies rebelled against the exacting financial claims of the mother country.
The actor Alec Guinness was exalted to the rank of knighthood by the Queen; he now is known as Sir Alec Guinness.
Johnny often exasperates his mother with his pranks.
The cinematic equivalent of an excerpt from a novel is a clip from a film.
He had been Chancellor of the exchequer before his promotion to the office he now holds.
When you excise the dead and dying limbs of a tree, you not only improve its appearance but also enhance its chances of bearing fruit.
These shoes are so ill-fitting that they will excoriate the feet and create blisters.
He was exculpated of the crime when the real criminal confessed.
The anecdote was in execrable taste and shocked the audience.
The world execrates the memory of Hitler and hopes that genocide will never again be the policy of any nation.
The choreographer wanted to see how well she could execute a pirouette.
I can follow your exegesis of this passage to a limited degree; some of your reasoning eludes me.
Her exemplary behavior was praised at commencement.
Three-time winner of the Super Bowl, Joe Montana exemplifies the ideal quarterback.
The exertion involved in unscrewing the rusty bolt left her exhausted.
The evangelist will exhort all sinners in his audience to reform.
Because of the rumor that he had been poisoned, his body was exhumed in order that an autopsy might be performed.
In this exigency, we must look for aid from our allies.
Grass grew there, an exiguous outcropping among the rocks.
To the existential philosopher, human reason is inadequate to explain an irrational, meaningless universe.
The exodus from the hot and stuffy city was particularly noticeable on Friday evenings.
I am sure this letter naming the actual culprit will exonerate you.
The people grumbled at his exorbitant prices but paid them because he had a monopoly.
By incantation and prayer, the medicine man sought to exorcise the evil spirits that had taken possession of the young warrior.
Because of his exotic headdress, he was followed in the streets by small children who laughed at his strange appearance.
At this time, please give us a brief resume of your work; we shall permit you to expatiate later.
Henry James was an American expatriate who settled in England.
A pragmatic politician, he was guided by what was expedient rather than by what was ethical.
We hope you will be able to expedite delivery because of our tight schedule.
Although she was knowledgeable in a number of fields, she was hired for her particular expertise in computer programming.
He tried to expiate his crimes by a full confession to the authorities.
The sergeant's remarks were filled with expletives that offended the new recruits.
Harry Levin explicated James Joyce's novels with such clarity that even Finnegan's Wake seemed comprehensible to his students.
Don't just hint around that you're dissatisfied: be explicit about what's bugging you.
Raoul Wallenberg was noted for his exploits in rescuing Jews from Hitler's forces.
Caesar Chavez fought attempts to exploit migrant farmworkers in California.
The mannual that came with my VCR was no masterpiece of expository prose: its explanations were so garbled that I couldn't even figure out how to rewind a tape.
Despite the teacher's scoldings and expostulations, the class remained unruly.
Exposure to sun and wind had dried out her hair and weathered her face.
If you behave, I will expunge this notation from your record.
The editors felt that certain passages in the book had to be expurgated before it could be used in the classroom.
Although the authorities suppressed the book, many copies are extant and may be purchased at exorbitant prices.
Because his extemporaneous remarks were misinterpreted, he decided to write all his speeches in advance.
It is easier for us to extenuate our own shortcomings than those of others.
The Salem witch trials were a misguided attempt to extirpate superstition and heresy.
The astronauts were extolled as the pioneers of the Space Age.
The blackmailer extorted money from his victim.
The lawyers opposed the extradition of their client on the grounds that for more than five years he had been a model citizen.
Do not pad your paper with extraneous matters; stick to essential items only.
Based on their extrapolation from the results of the primaries on Super Tuesday, the networks predicted that George Bush would be the Republican candidate for the presidency.
He found that he could not extricate himself from the trap.
Do not be fooled by extrinsic causes. We must look for the intrinsic reason.
A good salesperson in usually an extrovert, who likes to mingle with people.
Much pressure is required to extrude these plastics.
His speeches were famous for his exuberant language and vivid imagery.
The maple syrup is obtained from the sap that the trees exude in early spring.
We exulted when our team won the victory.
Because of the child's tendency to fabricate, we had trouble believing her.
The facade of the church had often been photographed by tourists because it was more interesting than the rear.
Your facetious remarks are not appropriate at this serious moment.
The stonecutter decided to improve the rough diamond by providing it with several facets.
Because he was a facile speaker, he never refused a request to address an organization.
He tried to facilitate repayment of the loan by getting a part-time job.
Many museums sell facsimilies of the works of art on display.
The quarrels and bickering of the two small factions within the club disturbed the majority of the members.
Your statement is factious and will upset the harmony that now exists.
Hollywood actresses often create factitious tears by using glycerine.
Although we had hired him as a messenger, we soon began to use him as a general factotum around the office.
As he grew old, he feared he might lose his faculties and become useless to his employer.
Your reasoning must be fallacious because it leads to a ridiculous answer.
I know I am fallible, but I feel confident that I am right this time.
 Farmers have learned that it is advisable to permit land to le fallow every few years.
When told to dive off the high board, she did not falter, but proceeded at once.
The leader of the group was held responsible even though he could not control the fanaticism of his followers.
You are resenting fancied insults. No one has ever said such things about you.
The dog fancier exhibited her prize collie at the annual Kennel Club show.
This is a fanciful scheme because it does not consider the facts.
The exposition was opened with fanfare of trumpets and the firing of cannon.
Your fears are fantastic because no such animal as you have described exists.
Nothing went right; the entire interview degenerated into a farce.
The waitresses disliked serving him dinner because of his very fastidious taste.
With fatalism, he accepted the hardships that beset him.
I find his motives impossible to fathom.
He is far too intelligent to utter such fatuous remarks.
The scientist could visualize the fauna of the period by examining the skeletal remains and the fossils.
She was constantly surrounded by a group of fawning admirers who had hoped to win some favor.
No crisis could faze the resourceful hotel manager.
This is an entirely feasible proposal. I suggest we adopt it.
In his febrile condition, he was subject to nightmares and hallucinations.
Einstein was noted for his extraordinary inspirations; on the other hand, he was noted for being feckless in his daily chores.
The fecundity of his mind is illustrated by the many vivid images in his poems.
Lady Macbeth feigned illness in the courtyard although she was actually healthy.
The boxer was fooled by his opponent's feint and dropped his guard.
He was famous for his felicitous remarks and was called upon to serve as master-of-ceremonies at many banquet.
She wrote a note to the newlyweds wishing them great felicity in their wedded life.
The newspapers told of the tragic spread of the fell disease
A convicted felon loses the right to vote
With the breakup of the Soviet Union, much of Eastern Europe was in a state of ferment.
She was ferreted out their secret.
She felt that the fervent praise was excessive and somewhat undeserved.
Her fervid enthusiasm inspired all of us to undertake the dangerous mission.
Their kiss was full of the fervor of first love.
When her finger began to fester, the doctor lanced it and removed the splinter that had caused the pus to
Their wedding in the park was a festive occasion.
The returning hero was feted at a community supper and dance.
The neglected wound became fetid.
The prisoner was fettered to the wall.
Our ambitious venture ended in a fiasco and we were forced to flee.
I cannot accept government by fiat; I feel that I must be consulted.
He discovered his supposedly faithful girlfriend was fickle
Although this book purports to be a biography of George Washington, many of the incidents are fictitious.
A dog's fidelity to its owner is one of the reasons why that animal is a favorite household pet.
That incident never took place; it is a figment of your imagination.
To lose one's marbles is a figurative expression; if you're told Jack has lost his marbles, no one expects you to rush out to buy him a replacement set.
In the Maltese Falcon, Sam Spade was hired to trace the missing figurine of a black bird.
The boys filched apples from the fruit stand.
Many children forget their filial obligations and disregard the wishes of their parents.
Even though we disapproved of Senator Foghorn's political goals, we were impressed by his ability to filibuster endlessly to keep an issue from coming to a vote.
The pendant with gold filigree that she wore round her neck trembled with each breath she took.
It is not until we reach the finale of this play that we can understand the author's message.
The finesse and adroitness of the surgeon impressed the observers in the operating room.
The old lady was finicky about her food and ate very little.
It is difficult for humanity with its finite existence to grasp the infinite.
The police triedto keep track of all the local firebrands when the President came to town.
The mountain climbers secured footholds in tiny fissures in the rock.
After several fitful attempts, he decided to postpone the start of the project until he felt more energetic.
His sedentary life had left him with flaccid muscles.
We cannot condone such flagrant violations of the rules.
When the opposing hockey team scored its third goal only minutes into the first period, the home team's spirits flagged.
In medieval times, warriors flailed their foe with a metal ball attached to a handle.
She has an uncanny flair for discovering new artists before the public has become aware of their existence.
Modern architecture has discarded the flamboyant trimming on buildings and emphasizes simplicity of line.
She is not the one of those actresses who flaunt their physical charms; she can act.
The criminal was condemned to be flayed alive.
Her cheeks flecked with tears, were testimony to the hours of weeping.
While it is necessary to provide these fledgling poets with an opportunity to present their work, it is not essential that we admire everything they write.
The tricksters fleeced him of his inheritance.
They shear sheep of their fleece, which they then comb into separate strands of wool.
The horse needed no encouragement; only one flick of the whip was all the jockey had to apply to get the animal to run at top speed.
He did not flinch in the face of danger but fought back bravely.
Your flippancy at this serious moment is offensive.
Like a bee flitting from flower to flower, Rose flitted from one boyfriend to the next.
The ship made slow progress as it battered its way through the ice floes.
Because she was a botanist, she spent most of her time studying the flora of the desert.
His complexion was even more florid than usual because of his anger.
Beachcombers eke out a living by salvaging the flotsam and jetsam of the sea.
The orange trees flourished in the sun.
The headstrong youth flouted all authority; he refused to be curbed.
Meteorologists watch the fluctuations of the barometer in order to predict the weather.
He spoke French with fluency and ease.
When Douglass defeated Tyson for the heavyweight championship, some sportscasters dismissed his victory as a fluke.
The teacher's sudden question flustered him and he stammered his reply.
All that remained of the ancient building were the fluted columns.
While conditions are in such a state of flux, I do not wish to commit myself too deeply in this affair.
One of Nancy's chores ar the ranch was to put fresh supplies of fodder in the horses' stalls.
We can overlook the foibles of our friends; no one is perfect.
In "Star Wars," dark, evil Darth Vader is a perfect foil for fair-haired, naive Luke Skywalker.
In the end, Skywalker is able to foil Vader's diabolical schemes.
I will not permit you to foist such ridiculous ideas upon the membership of this group.
Every autumn before the leaves fell he promised himself he would drive though the New England to admire the colorful fall foliage.
This report will foment disssension in the club.
Don't be foolhardy. Get the advice of experienced people before undertaking this venture.
He tried to imitate the foppish manner of the young men of the court.
The company staged a midnight foray against the enemy outpost.
We must use forbearance in dealing with him because he is still weak from his illness.
Rather than risk using the shaky rope bridge, David walked a half-mile downstream until he came to the neartest ford.
Reverence for one's forebears (sometimes referred to as ancestor worship) plays an important part in many Oriental cultures.
Caeser ridiculed his wife's foreboding about the Ides of March.
In her best forensic manner, the lawyer addressed the jury.
In retrospect, political analysts realized that Yeltsin's defiance of the attempted coup foreshadowed his emergence as the dominant figure of the new Russian republic.
A wise investor, she had the foresight to buy land just before the current real estate boom.
By setting up a prenuptial agreement, the prospective bride and groom hoped to forestall any potential arguments about money in the event of a divorce.
Determined to lose weight for the summer, Ida decided to forgo dessert until she could fit into a size eight again.
Signing this petition is a mere formality; it does not obligate you in any way.
We must not treat the battle lightly for we are facing a formidable foe.
No one expected Foster to forsake his wife and children and run off with another woman.
The captured knight could escape death only if he agreed to forswear Christianity and embrace Islam as the one true faith.
I am not eager to play this rather seious role, for my forte is comedy.
I prefer Jill's forthright approach to Jack's tendency to beat around the bush.
He was awarded the medal for his fortitude in the battle.
There is no connection between these two events; their timing is entirely fortuitous.
According to the legend, Romulus and Remus were fostered by a she-wolf that raised the abandoned infants as her own.
After hitting the submerged iceberg, the Titanic started taking in water rapidly and soon foundered.
The military police stopped the fracas in the bar and arrested the belligerents.
The fractious horse unseated its rider.
The doctor prescribed vitamin and mineral supplements for the sick old woman because of her frailty.
The city issued a franchise to the company to operate surface transit lines on the streets for ninety-nine years.
At the time of the collision, many people became frantic with fear.
The government seeks to prevent fraudulent and misleading advertising.
Since this enterprise is fraught with danger, I will ask for volunteers who are willing to assume the risks.
The three musketeers were in the thick of fray.
His frenetic activities convinced us that he had no organized plan of operation.
As soon as they smelled smoke, the frenzied animals milled about in their cages.
The cathedral is visited by many tourists who wish to admire the frescoes by Glotto.
To fret over your poor grades is foolish; instead, decide to work harder in the future.
At this time when harmony is essential, we cannot afford to have any friction in our group.
The frieze of the church was adorned with sculpture.
Alaska is in the frigid zone.
He could not apply himself to any task and frittered away his time in idle conversation.
Though Nancy enjoyed Bill's frivolous, lighthearted companionship, she sometimes wondered whether he
The frolicsome puppy tried to lick the face of its master.
After the storm the beach was littered with the fronds of palm trees.
This peach tree should fructify in three years.
In these economically difficult days businesses must practice frugality or risk bankruptcy.
This building marks the fruition of all our aspirations and years of hard work.
The film brought a few fugitive images to her mind, but on the whole it made no lasting impression upon
If we use this stone as a fulcrum and the crowbar as a lever, we may be able to move this boulder.
The people against whom she fulminated were innocent of any wrongdoing.
His fulsome praise of the dictator annoyed his listeners.
As his case was transferred from one functionary to another, he began to despair of ever reaching a settlement.
 The committee discussed all sorts of side issues without ever getting down to addressing the fundamental problem.
I fail to understand why there is such a funereal atmosphere; we have lost a battle, not a war.
The story of her embezzlement of the funds created a furor on the stock exchange.
The boy gave a furtive look at his classmate's test paper.
Tchaikovsky's 1812 Overture concludes with a thunderous fusilade of cannon fire.
The opponents of the political party in power organized a fusion of disgruntled groups and became an important element in the election.
Why waste your time on futile pursuits?
Like a gadfly, he irritated all the guests at the hotel; within forty eight hours, everyone regarded him as an annoying busybody.
According to Miss Manners, to call your husband by your lover's name is worse than a mere gaffe; it is a tactical mistake.
She was too honest to gainsay the truth of the report.
The lame man walked with an uneven gait.
The deaths of such famous actors as Clark Gable, Gary Cooper, Spencer Tracy, and Marlene Dietrich demonstrate that the galaxy of Hollywood superstars is rapidly disppearing.
The Spaniards pinned their hopes on the galleon, the large warship; the British, on the smaller and faster pinnace.
Their taunts galled him.
The knowledge of his failure filled him with gall.
The entire nation was galvanized into strong military activity by the news of the attack on Pearl Harbor.
The player was afraid to accept his opponent's gambit because he feared a trap which as yet he could not see.
Watching children gamboling in the park is a pleasant experience
Because he had fought gamely against a much superior boxer, the crowd gave him a standing ovation when he left the arena.
In this performance, the leading lady was able to demonstrate the complete gamut of her acting ability.
The huge pit gaped before him; if he stumbled, he would fall in.
A favorite party game involves passing a whispered message from one person to another; by the time it reaches the last player, the message has become totally garbled.
The gargantuan wrestler was terrified of mice.
The gargoyles adorning the Cathedral of Notre Dame in Paris are amusing in their grotesqueness.
She wore a garish rhinestone necklace.
She hoped to garner the world's literature in one library.
Parsley was used to garnish the boiled potato.
The man who married a dumb wife asked the doctor to make him deaf because of his wife's garrulity after her cure.
Many club members avoided the company of the garrulous junior executive because his contant chatter bored them to tears.
One of the by-products of his trip to Europe was his interest in gastronomy; he enjoyed preparing and serving foreign dishes to his friends.
Such remarks are gauche and out of place; you should apologize for making them.
Her gaudy taste in clothes apalled us.
His once-round face looked surprisingly gaunt after he had lost weight.
The country boy gawked at the skyscrapers and neon lights of the big city.
He read the gazettes regularly for announcement of his promotion.
He was proud of his genealogy and constantly referred to the achievements of his ancestors.
This report is filled with generalities; you must be more specific in you statements.
Sue knew so many computer programmers who spent their spare time playing fantasy games that she began to think that playing Dungeon & Dragons was a generic trait.
Tracing the genesis of a family is the theme of "Roots."
This restaurant is famous and popular because of the geniality of the proprietor, who tries to make everyone happy.
Both a short story writer and a poet, Langston Hughes proved himself equally skilled in either genre.
We are looking for a man with a genteel apperance who can inspire confidence by his cultivated manner.
Her family was proud of its gentility and elegance.
The local gentry did not welcome the visits of the summer tourists and tried to ignore their presence in the community.
A proud denocrat, he refused to genuflect to any man.
The lawyer objected that the testimony being offered was not germane to the case at hand.
Such an idea is germinal; I am certain that it will influence thinkers and philosophers for many generations.
After the seeds germinate and develop their permanent leaves, the plants may be removed from the cold frames and transplanted to the garden.
Gulliver visited a gerontocracy in which the young people acted as servants to their elders, all the while dreaming of the day they would be old enough to have servants of their own.
The illogical pattern of the map of this congressional district is proof that the state legislature gerrymandered this area in order to favor the majority 
While this scheme was being gestated by the conspirators, they maintained complete silence about their intentions.
Operatic performers are trained to make exaggerated gesticulations because of the large auditoriums in which they appear.
The murdered man was a ghastly sight.
Did you hear that foolish boy spouting gibberish about monsters from outer space?
As you gibe at their superstitious beliefs, do you realize that you, too, are guilty of similarly foolish thoughts?
He felt his giddy youth was past.
To separate egg whites, first crack the egg gingerly.
It took an extra-large cummerbund to fit around Andrew Carnegie's considerable girth.
she was asked to give the gist of the essay in two sentence.
Never a warm person, when offended hugo could seem positively glacial.
glaring spelling or grammatical errors in your resume will unfavorably impress potential employers.
The freezing rain glazed the streets and made driving hazardous.
After the crops had been harvested by the machines, the peasants were permitted to glean the wheat left in the fields.
He is a glib and articulate speaker.
In the darkness of the cavern, the glowworms hanging from the cavern roof glimmered like distant stars.
As you gloat over your ill-gotten wealth, do you think of the many victims you have defrauded?
I have found the glossary in this book very useful; it has eliminated many trips to the dictionary.
I want this photograph printed on glossy paper, not matte.
No matter how hard he tried to talk around the issue, President Bush could not gloss over the fact that he had raised the taxes after all.
The angry boy glowered at his father.
Molasses is a glutinous substance.
When Mother saw that Bobby had eaten all the cookies, she called him a little glutton.
The many manufacturers glutted the market and could not find purchasers for the many articles they had produced.
The gnarled oak tree had been a landmark for years and was mentioned in several deeds.
In medieval mythology, gnomes were the special guardians and inhabitants of subterranean mines.
He was goaded by his friends until he yielded to their wishes.
Terrified of heights, George could not bring himself to peer down into the gorge to see the rapids below.
The audience shuddered as they listened to the details of the gory massacre.
Nylon can be woven into gossaner or thick fabrics.
In that fight, all the rules were forgotten; the adversaries bit, kicked, and tried to gouge each other's eyes out
goumands lack self-restraint; if they enjoy a particular cuisine, they eat far too much of it.
The gourmet stated that this was the best onion soup she had ever tasted.
Margaret loved her graduated set of Russian hollow wooden dolls; she spent hours happily putting the smaller dolls into their larger counterparts.
We have reason to be thankful, for our crops were good and our granaries are full.
No matter how often he hiked through the mountains, David never failed to be struck by the grandeur of the Sierra Nevada range.
The politician could bever speak simply; she was always grandiloquent.
His grandiose manner impressed those who met him for the first time.
Sugar that has been granulated dissolves more readily than lump sugar.
I was particularly impressed by the graphic presentation of the storm.
He grappled with the burglar and overpowered him.
The screams of the quarreling children grated on her nerves.
Her parents were gratified by her success.
The company offered to give one package gratis to every purchaser of one of their products.
Quit making gratuitous comments about my driving; no one asked you for your opinion.
Many service employees rely more on gratuities than on salaries for their livelihood.
We could tell we were in serious trouble from the gravity of her expression.
Typically, party-throwers are gregarious; hermits are not.
When her supervisor ignored her complaint, she took her grievance to the union.
In violation of the Miranda law, the police grilled the suspect for several hours before reading him his rights.
Even though he remained silent, his grimace indicated his displeasure.
She shuddered at the grisly sight.
On Halloween people enjoy wearing groteque costumes.
The Blue Grotto in Capri can be entered only by small boats rowed by natives through a natural opening in the rocks.
Students traditionally grouse about the abysmal quality of "mystery meat" and similar dornitory food.
Even though we have been defeated, we do not have to grovel before our conquerors.
We received only grudging support from the mayor despite his earlier promises of aid.
The marathon is a grueling race.
Our daily allotment of gruel made the meal not only monotonous but also unpalatable.
People screamed when her gruesome appearance was flashed on the screen.
Although he was blunt and gruff with most people, he was always gentle with children.
The loud guffaws that came from the closed room indicated that the members of the committe had not yet settled down to a serious business.
He is naive, simple, and guileless; he cannot be guilty of fraud.
She achieved her high position by guile and treachery.
In the guise of a plumber, the detective investigated the murder case.
He preyed upon gullible people, who believed his stories of easy wealth.
The Thai restaurant offered an unusual gustatory experience for those used in a bland cuisine.
He accepted the assignment with such gusto that I feel he would have been satisfied with a smaller salary.
The gusty weather made sailing precarious.
By using a rotating gyroscope, they were able to stabilize the vessel, counteracting the rolling movements of the sea.
The dog's hackles rose and he began to growl as the sound of footsteps grew louder.
The English teacher criticized her story because of its hackneyed and unoriginal plot.
After his long illness, he was pale and haggard.
I prefer to shop in a store that has a one-price policy because, whenever I haggle with a shopkeeper, I am never certain that I paid a fair price for the articles I purchased.
In those halcyon days, people were not worried about sneak attacks and bombings.
After a brief illness, he was soon hale.
She was laid to rest in hallowed ground.
I think you were frightened by a hallucination that you created in you own mind.
Novice extemporaneous speakers often talk in a halting fashion as they grope for the right words.
The minority party agreed not to hamper the efforts of the leaders to secure a lasting peace.
His haphazard reading left him unaquainted with the authors of the books.
This hapless creature had never known a moment's pleasure.
In his poem hap, Thomas Hardy objects to the part chance plays in our lives.
In her lengthy harangue, the principal berated the offenders.
When he could not pay his bills as quickly as he had promised, he was harrassed by his creditors.
The crocus is an early harbinger of spring.
The church harbored illegal aliens who were political refugees.
We asked the gardening expert to recommend particularly hardy plants that could withstand our harsh New England winters.
After he had reminded me several times about what he had done for me I told him to stop his harping on my indebtedness to him.
I don't want to harrow you at this time by asking you to recall the details of your unpleasant experience.
The guerrilla band harried the enemy nightly.
The latch on the hatch failed to catch, so the hatch remained unlatched.
I resent his haughtiness because he is no better than we are.
Your occupation is too hazardous for insurance companies to consider your application.
In hazy weather, you cannot see the top of this mountain.
The slave seized the unexpected chance to make a headlong dash across the border to freedom.
Because she refused to marry the man her parents had chosen for her, everyone scolded Minna and called
The heckler kept interrupting the speaker with rude remarks.
hedonism and asceticism are opposing philosophies of human behavior.
He drove on, heedless of the warnings that the road was dangerous.
As one Eastern European nation after another declared its independence, commentators marveled at the sudden breakdown of the once monolithic Soviet hegemony.
Hitler's heinous crimes will never be forgotten.
Some herbivorous animals have two stomachs for digesting their food.
He was threatened with excommunication because his remarks were considered to be pure heresy.
She was punished by the Spanish Inquisition because she was a heretic.
After these bandages are sterilized, they are placed in hermetic containers.
Even in his remote hermitage he could not escape completely from the world.
As a boy, Indiana Jones had a traumatic experience involving snakes; sensibly enough, he studies to be archaeologist, not a herpetologist.
To those who upheld the belief that the earth did not move, Galileo's theory that the earth circled the sun was disturbingly heterodox.
In a heterogeneous group, we have an unassorted assemblage, while in a homogeneous group we have people or things that have common traits.
The cavalry rushed into melee and hewed the enemy with their swords.
In their heyday, the San Francisco Forty-Niners won the Super Bowl two years running.
Except for a brief two-year hiatus, during which she enrolled in the Peace Corps, Ms. Clements has devoted herself to her medical career.
Bears prepare for their long hibernal sleep by overeating.
Bears are one of the many species of animals that hibernate.
It was difficult to step out of one's place in this hierarchy.
The discovery of the Rosetta Stone enabled scholars to read the ancient Egyptian hieroglyphics.
The hilarity is improper on this solemn day of mourning.
The coward could always be found in the hindmost lines whenever a battle was being waged.
Stalled cars along the highway are a hindrance to traffic that tow trucks should remove without delay.
They seldom had visitors, living as they did way out in the hinderlands.
In a matter of such importance, I do not wish to deal with hirelings; I must meet with the chief.
He was a hitsute individual with a heavy black beard.
He was proud of his histrionic ability and wanted to paly the role of Hamlet.
Whenever there are rumors of a food shortage, people are tempted to hoard food.
The man was hoary and wrinkled when he was 70.
Embarrassed by the hoax, he reddened and left the room.
Citizens of San Francisco remember that the destruction of the city was caused not by the earthquake but by the holocaust that followed.
Even when he was not in uniform, he carried a holster and pistol under his arm.
In her speech she tried to pay homage to a great man.
A breakdown of the body's immune system severely undermines the body's ability to maintain homeostasis.
homespun wit, like homespun cloth, was often coarse and plain.
His speeches were always homilies, advising his listeners to repent and reform.
Many educators try to put pupils of similar abilities in the same class because they believe that his homogeneous grouping is advisable.
To make shaving easier, he honed his razor with great care.
Having been hoodwinked once by the fast-talking salesman, he was extremely cautious when he went to purchase a used car.
Just before Christmas the stores are filled with hordes of shoppers.
The crowd listened to his hortatory statements with ever-growing excitement; finally they rushed from the hall to carry to his suggestions.
When he bought his house, he beganto look for flowers and decorative shrubs, and began to read books dealing with horticultural matters.
He wondered how poor people could stand living in such a hovel.
The police helicopter hovered above the accident.
The marketplace was a scene of hubbub and excitement.
Filled with hubris, Lear refused to heed his friends' warnings.
The aviary contained birds of every possible hue.
His humane and considerate treatment of the unfortunate endeared him to all.
After years of adventure, he could not settle down to a humdrum existence.
She could not stand the humid climate and moved to a drier area.
He spoke with a humility and lack of pride that impressed his listeners.
The ascent of the hummock is not difficult and the view from the hilltop is ample reward tor the effort.
In order to improve his garden, he spread humus over his lawn and flower beds.
The runaway train hurtled toward disaster.
He accumulated his small fortune by diligence and husbandry.
Mendel's formula explains the appearance of hybrids and pure species in breeding.
A dog that bites a human being must be observed for symptoms of hydrophobia.
This salesman is guilty of hyperbole in describing his product; it is wise to discount his claims.
You are hypercritical in your demands for perfection; we all make mistakes.
The doctor prescribed chocolate pills for his patient who was a hypocondriac.
I resent his hypocritical posing as a friend for I know he is interested only in his own advancement.
Why do we have to consider hypothetical cases when we have actual case histories that we may examine?
Jacques Cousteau's rpograms about sea life have advanced the cause of ichthyology.
George Bernard Shaw's iconoclastic plays often startled more conventional people.
The icons on the walls of the church were painted in the 13th century.
That ideology is dangerous to this country because it embraces undemocratic philosophies.
I could not understand their idioms because literal translation made no sense.
One of his personal idiosyncrasies was his habit of rinsing all cutlery given him in a restaurant.
Such behavior is idiosyncratic, it is as easily identifiable as a signature.
Such idolatry of singers of country music is typical of the excessive enthusiasm of youth.
Far from the city, she led an idyllic existence in her rural retreat.
Lava, pumice, and other igneous rocks are found in great abundance around Mount Vesuvius near Naples.
When Desi crooned, "Baby, light my fire," literal-minded Lucy looked around for some paper to ignite.
This plan is inspired by ignoble motives and I must, therefore, oppose it.
The country smarted under the ignominious defeat and dreamed of the day when it would be victorious.
The defense attorney claimed that the police had entrapped his client; that is, they had elicited the illicit action of which they now accuse of him.
Human beings, having explored the far corners of the earth, are now reaching out into illimitable space.
Just as a lamp can illuminate a dark room, a perceptive comment can illuminate a knotty problem.
It is easy to create an optical illusion in which lines of equal length appear different.
This is only a mirage; let us not be fooled by its illusive effect.
Unfortunately, the costs of running the lemonade stand were so high that Tom's profits proved illusory.
Because of the great imbalance between the number of men and women invited, the dance was unsuccessful.
I am amazed at the imbecility of the readers of these trashy magazines.
The dry soil imbibed the rain quickly.
He was called in to settle the imbroglio but failed to bring harmony into the situation.
His visits to the famous Gothic cathedrals imbued him with feelings of awe and reverence.
The West Point cadets were immaculate as they lined up for inspection.
Rosa was such a last-minute worker that she could never start writing a paper till the deadline was imminent.
Modern armies cannot afford the luxury of immobility, as they are vulnerable to attack while standing still.
The tribal kind offered to immolate his daughter to quiet the angry gods.
For the two weeks before the examination, the student immureed himself in his room and concentrated upon his studies.
Scientists are constantly seeking to discover the immutable laws of nature.
This arrest will impair her reputation in the community.
He was impaled by the spear hurled by his adversary.
The ash is so fine that it is impalpable to the touch but it can be seen as a fine layer covering the window ledge.
In this impasse, all turned to prayer as their last hope.
The Native American has been incorrectly depicted as an impassive individual, undemonstrative and stoical.
The angry congressman wanted to impeach the President for his misdeeds.
He was proud of his impeccable manners.
Now that he was wealthy, he gladly contributed to funds to assist impecunious and disbled persons.
The special prosecutor determined that the Attorney General, though inept, had not intentionally set out to impede the progress of the investigation.
She had a speech impediment that prevented her from speaking clearly.
The entire country was saddened by the news of his impending death.
How could the murderer have gotten into the locked room? To Watson, the mystery, like the room, was impenetrable.
We could see by his brazen attitude that he was impenitent.
When hotel owner Leona Helmsley appeared in ads as Queen Leona standing guard over the Palace Hotel, her critics mocked her imperial fancies.
His imperiousness indicated that he had long been accustomed to assuming command.
This new material is impermeable to liquids.
I regard your remarks as impertinent and I resent them.
Wellington remained imperturbable and in full command of the situation in spite of the hyteria and panic all around him.
You cannot change their habits for their minds are impervious to reasoning.
We tried to curb his impetuous behavior because we felt that in his haste he might offend some people.
A new federal highway program would create jobs and five added impetus to our economic recovery.
We must regard your blasphemy as an act of impiety.
How could they be married without impinging on one another's freedom?
The congregation was offended by her impious remarks.
Madame Defarge was the implacable enemy of the Evremonde family.
Though her alibi seened implausible, it in fact turned out to be true.
The mayor was unwilling to implement the plan until she was sure it had the governor's backing.
If I understand the implications of your remark, you do not trust our captain.
Jack never told Jill he adored her; he believed his love was implicit in his deeds.
He implored her to give him a second chance.
Even though your statement does not declare that you are at war with that country, your actions imply that that is the actual situation.
I think it is impolitic to raise this issue at the present time because the public is too angry.
I can evaluate the data gathered in this study; the imponderable items are not so easily analyzed.
He tried to hide from his importunate creditors until his allowance arrived.
Democratic and Republican phone solicitors importuned her for contributions so frequently that she decided to give nothing to either party.
I feel that you have not grasped the full import of the message sent tous by the enemy.
She was imprisoned for her imposture of a doctor.
Although he wished to break the nicotine habit, he found himself impotent in resisisting the craving for a cigarette.
Roused from the bed at what he considered an ungodly hour, Roy muttered imprecations under his breath.
Until the development of the airplane as a military weapon, the fort was considered impregnable.
Her listeners were amazed that such a thorough presentation could be made in an impromptu speech.
Because of the impropriety of his costume, he was denied entrance into the dining room.
He was constantly being warned to mend his improvident ways and begin to "save for a rainy day."
She would sit at the piano and improvise for hours on themes from Bach and Handel.
It is imprudent to exercise vigorously and become overheated when you are unwell.
I cannot impugn your honesty without evidence.
The lame duck President was frustrated by his shift from enormous power to relative impuissance.
The bully mistreated everyone in the class with impunity for he felt that no one would dare retaliate.
If I wished to impute blame to the officers in charge of this program, I would state my feelings definitely and immediately.
She inadvertently omitted two questions on the examination and mismarked her answer sheet.
The Declaration of Independence mentions the inalienable rights that all of us possess.
Such comments are inane because they do not help us solve our program.
she was asked to identify the still and inanimate body.
He became inarticulate with rage and uttered sounds without meaning.
The candidate promised that he would inaugurate a new nationwide health care plan as soon as he was inaugurated as president.
If you leave on an incandescent light bulb, it quickly grows too hot to touch.
Uttering incantations to make the brew more potent, the witch doctor stirred the liquid in the caldron.
During the winter, many people were incapacitated by respiratory ailments.
The warden will incarcerate the felon after conviction.
Your attitude is so fiendish that you must be a devil incarnate.
The incarnation of Jesus Christ is a basic tenet of Christian theology.
The fire spread in such an unusual manner that the fire department chiefs were certain that it had been set by an incendiary.
Unkindness to children incensed her.
Students who dislike school must be given an incentive to learn.
She was involved with the project from its inception.
The crickets kept up an incessant chirping that disturbed our attempts to fall asleep.
Before the Creation, the world was an inchoate mass.
Health professionals expressed great concern over the high incidence of infant mortality in major urban areas.
The scholarship covered his major expenses at college and some of his incidental expenses as well.
I will go to sleep early for I want to break an incipient cold.
His incisive remarks made us see the fallacy in our plans.
The demogogue incited the mob to take action into its own hands.
I like to read a good book in inclement weather.
Though I am inclined to be skeptical, the witness's manner inclines me to believe his story.
The architect recommended that the nursing home's ramp be rebuilt because its incline was too steep for wheelchairs.
The comedian turned down the invitation to join the Player's Club, saying any club that would let him in was too inclusive for him.
The monarch enjoyed traveling throughthe town incognito and mingling with the populace.
The bereaved father sobbed and stammered, his words becoming almost incoherent in his grief.
In their incommodious quarters, they had to improvise for closet space.
The married couple argued incessantly and finally decided to separate because they were incompatible.
The incongruity of his wearing sneakers with formal attire amused the observers.
Brushing off Ali's apologies for having broken the wine glass, Tamara said, "Don't worry about it; it's inconsequential."
How are lawyers different from agricultural inspectors? Where lawyers check inconsistencies in witnesses' statements, agricultural inspectors check inconsistencies in Grade A eggs.
His incontinent behavior off stage shocked many people and they refused to attend the plays and movies in which he appeared.
We must yield to the incontrovertible evidence that you have presented and free your client.
Breaking with precedent, President Truman ordered the military to incorporate blacks into every branch of the armed services.
We must devote time to the needs of our incorporeal mind as well as our corporeal body.
Though Widow Douglass hoped to reform Huck, Miss Watson pronounced him incorrigible and said he would come to no good end.
Your incredulity in the face of all the evidence is hard to understand.
When Jack claimed he hadn't eaten the jelly doughnut, Jill took an incredulous look at his smeared face and laughed.
The new contract calls for a 10 percent increment in salary for each employee for the next two years.
The witness's testimony against the racketeers incriminates some high public officials as well.
Inasmuch as our supply of electricity is cut off, we shall have to rely on the hens to incubate these eggs.
The incubus of financial worry helped bring on her nervous breakdown.
The newly elected public official received valuable advice from the present incumbent.
The nightly incursions and hit-and-run raids of our neighbors across the border tried the patience of the country to the point where we decided to retaliate in force.
His parents refused to pay any future debts he might incur.
He was indefatigable in his constant efforts to raise funds for the Red Cross.
The city will indemnify all home owners whose property is spoiled by this project.
Many immigrants could come to America only after they had indentured themselves for several years.
That interest rates shall rise appears certain; when they will do so, however, remains indeterminate.
A lack of appetite may be indicative of a major mental or physical disorder.
If the grand jury indicts the suspect, he will go to trial.
Because she felt no desire to marry, she was indifferent to his constant proposals.
Neither the economists nor the political scientists have found a way to wipe out the inequities of wealth and eliminate indigence from our society.
Tobacco is one of the indigenous plants that the early explorers found in this country.
He felt indignation at the ill-treatment of the helpless animals.
Although he seemed to accept cheerfully the indignities heaped upon him, he was inwardly very angry.
She disapproved of her son's indiscriminate television viewing and decided to restrict him to educational
In the face of these indisputable statements, I withdraw my complaint.
The indissoluble bonds of marriage are all too often being dissolved.
Cyrano indited many letters for Christian.
He outgrew his youthful indolence to become a model of industry and alertness on the job.
The founders of our country had indomitable willpower.
Because her argument was indubitably valid, the judge accepted it.
After the quarrel, Tina said nothing could induce her to talk to Tony again.
The discovery of the planet Pluto is an excellent example of the results that can be obtained from inductive reasoning.
indulgent parents spoil their children by giving in to their every whim.
Because of his inebriety, he was discharged from his position as family chauffeur.
Such ineffable joy must be experienced; it cannot be described.
Because the candidate failed to get across his message to the public, his campaign was ineffectual.
He felt that his fate was ineluctible and refused to make any attempt to improve his lot.
inept as a carpenter, Ira was all thumbs.
In demanding equal pay for equal work, women protest the basic inequity of a system that allots greater financial rewards to men.
Jane refused to believe in the pope's inerrancy, reasoning: "All human beings are capable of error. The pope is a human being. Therefore, he pope is capable of error.
Our inertia in this matter may prove disastrous; we must move to aid our allies immediately.
Death and taxes are both inevitable.
After listening to the pleas for clemency, the judge was inexorable and gave the convicted man the maximum punishment allowed by law.
We must remember that none of us is infallible; we all make mistakes.
Jesse James was an infamous outlaw.
When will he outgrow such infantile behavior?
They could think of no way to hinder his infernal scheme.
We must be particularly cautious when we infer that a person is guilty on the basis of circumstantial evidence.
The Saracens made war against tne infidels.
In order to infiltrate enemy lines at night without being seen, the scouts darkened their faces and wore black coveralls.
In the twentieth century, physicists have made their greatest discoveries about the characteristics of infinitesimal objects like the atom and its parts.
Her greatest infirmity was lack of willpower.
His claims about the new product were inflated; it did not work as well as he had promised.
The influx of refugees into the country has taxed the relief agencies severely.
Because of his many infractions of school regulations, he was suspended by the dean.
I think your machine infringes on my patent and intend to sue.
He came up with a use for Styrofoam packing balls that was so ingenious that his business school professors declared it was marketable.
Although she was over forty, the movie star still insisted that she be cast as an ingenuous sweet young thing.
Try as they would, the missionaries were unable to uproot the ingrained superstitions of the natives.
That ingrate Bob sneered at the tie I gave him.
He tried to ingratiate himself into her parents' good graces.
His inherent love of justice compelled him to come to their aid.
The child was not inhibited in her responses.
She felt that they were inimical and were hoping for her downfall.
We admire Auden for his inimitable use of language; he is one of a kind.
I cannot approve of the iniquitous methods you used to gain your present position.
The college is about to initiate a program for reducing math anxiety among students.
Smoking cigarettes can be injurious to your health.
This came as a complete surprise to me as I did not have the slightest inkling of your plans.
His innate talent for music was soon recognized by his parents.
Let him drink it; it is innocuous and will have no ill effect.
She loved innovatins just because they were new.
I can defend myself against direct accusations; innuendos and oblique attacks on my character are what trouble me.
A rock concert is an inopportune setting for a quiet conversation.
She had an inordinate fondness for candy.
We need more inquisitive students in this school; lectures are dull.
Fearing being grilled ruthlessly by the secret police, Marsha faced her inquisitors with trepidation.
The mosquito-ridden swamp was an insalubrious place, a breeding ground for malarial contagion.
Welty's thirst for knowledge was insatiable; she was in the library day and night.
Experienced poker players try to keep their expressions inscrutable, hiding their reactions to the cards behind a so-called poker face.
She lay there as insensate as a log.
Sherry and I are very different; at times when I would be covered with embarrassment, she seems insensible to shame.
The fifth column is insidious because it works secretly within our territory for our defeat.
What are you trying to insinuate by that remark?
Flat prose and flat ginger ale are equally insipid: both lack sparkle.
How dare you treat me so rudely! The manager will hear of you insolence.
When rumors that he was insolvent reached his creditors, they began to press him for payment of the money due them.
He refused to join us in a midnight cup of coffee because he claimed it gave him insomnia.
Your insouciant attitude at such a critical moment indicates that you do not understand the gravity of the situation.
I am afraid that this statement will instigate a revolt.
The insubordinate private was confined to the barracks.
His hopes for a career in acting proved insubstantial; no one would cast him, even in an insubstantial role.
The insularity of the islanders manifested itself in their suspicion of anyuthing foreign.
In the face of insuperable difficulties they maintained their courage and will to resist.
We will not discuss reforms until the insurgent troops have returned to their homes.
Given the current state of affairs in South Africa, an insurrection seems unavoidable.
Though the financial benefits of his Oxford post were meager, Lewis was drawn to it by its intangible rewards: prestige, intellectual freedom, the fellowship of his peers.
Physical education is an integral part of our curriculum; a sound mind and a sound body are complementary.
She tried to integrate all their activities into one program.
Lincoln, whose personal integrity has inspired millions, fought a civil war to maintain the integrity of the republic, that these United States might remain undivided for all time.
He thought college would develop his intellect.
She preferred discussions about sports and politics to the literary conversations of the intelligentsia.
Civilized nations must interdict the use of nuclear weapons if we expect out society to live.
The company will not consider our proposal until next week; in the interim, let us proceed as we have in the past.
The merchant thought of his competitors as interlopers who were stealing away his trade.
Although his speech lasted for only twenty minutes, it seemed interminable to his bored audience.
Our picnic was marred by intermittent rains.
The rising death toll on both sides indicates the internecine natire of his conflict.
She talked so much that I could not interpolate a single remark.
Henry VIII desperately sought a male heir because he feared the civil strife that might occur if any prolonged interregum succeeded his death.
Knowing that the Nazis would interrogate him about his background, the secret agent invented a cover story that would help him meet their quesions.
The molecules will intersperse throughout the space according to the second law of thermodynamics.
She intervened in the argument between her two sons.
They are going to inter the body tomorrow ar Broadlawn Cemetry.
She intimated rather than stated her preferences.
A ruler who maintains his power by intimidation is bound to develop clandestine resistance.
The horse was intractable and refused to enter the starting gate.
The intransigence of both parties in the dispute makes an early settlement almost impossible to obtain.
For his intrepid conduct in battle, he was promoted.
Although my grandmother's china has intrinsically little value, I shall always cherish it for the memories it evokes.
We all have our introspective moments during which we examine our souls.
In his poetry, he reveals that he is an introvert by his intense interest in his own problems.
She hesitated to intrude on their conversation.
She claimed to know the truth by intuition.
The tremendous waves inundated the town.
She became inured to the Alaskan cold.
The relatives who received little or nothing sought to invalidate the will by claiming that the deceased had not been in his right mind when he signed the document.
He had expected criticism but not the invective that greeted his proposal.
He inveighed against the demagoguery of the previous speaker and urged that the audience reject his philosophy as dangerous.
She was inveigled into joining the club after an initial reluctance.
There is an inverse ratio between the strength of light and its distance.
When he inverted his body in a hand stand, he felt the blood rush to his head.
She is an inveterate smoker and cannot break the habit.
We disregarded her invidious remarks because we realized how jealous she was.
Superman is invincible.
They respected the inviolability of her faith and did not try to change her manner of living.
She invoked her advisor's aid in filling out her financial aid forms.
Achilles was invulnerable except in his heel.
She hadn't an iota of common sense.
Her irascible temper frightened me.
When John's mother found out that he had overthrown his checking account for the third month in a row, she was so irate that she could scarcely speak to him.
She admired the iridescent hues of the oil that floated on the surface of the water.
He found working on the assembly line irksome because of the monotony of the operation he had to perform.
It is ironic that his success came when he least wanted it.
Gradually his listeners began to realize that the excessive praise he was lavishing was merely irony; he was actually denouncing his opponent.
Because the separated couple were irreconcilable, the marriage counselor recommended a divorce.
This statement is irrelevant and should be disregarded by the jury.
The error she made was irremediable; she could see no way to repair it.
Your apology cannot atone for the irreparable damage you have done to her reputation.
Her high spirits were irrepressible.
She had no respect for him because he seemed weak-willed and irresolute.
The worshippers resented her irreverent remarks about their faith.
Let us not brood over past mistakes since they are irrevocable.
The study of the isotopes of uranium led to the development of the nuclear bomb.
In a magnificent feat of engineering, Goethals and his men cut through the isthmus of Panama in constructing the Panama Canal.
He was an itinerant peddler and traveled through Pennsylvania and Virginia selling his wares.
Before leaving for his first visit to France and England, he discussed his itinerary with people who had been there and with his travel agent.
He looked for exotic foods to stimulate his jaded appetite.
We tried to understand the jargon of the peddlers in the market place but could not find any basis for comprehension.
She gazed at the painting with jaundiced eyes; she knew it was better than hers.
In Singing in the Rain, Gene Kelly sang and danced his way throughtthe lighthearted title number in a properly jaunty style.
He took a quick jaunt to Atlantic City.
Legally, one cannot be placed in double jeopardy.
In order to enable the ship to ride safely through the storm, the captain had to jettison much of his cargo.
We must be careful to prevent a spirit of jingoism from spreading at this time.
The salesman was so jocose that many of his customers suggested that he become a stand-up comic.
Do not take my jocular remarks seriously.
Santa Claus is always vivacious and jocund.
The festive Christmas dinner was a merry one, and old and young alike joined in the general jollity.
In the subway he was jostled by the crowds.
A frown seemed out of place on his invariably jovial face.
There was great jubilitation when the armistice was announced.
At a key moment in his life, he made a judicious investment that was the foundation of his later wealth.
Nothing could survive in the path of the juggernaut.
At this critical juncture, let us think carefully before determining the course we shall follow.
Though she maintained she had gone abroad to collect firsthand data on the Common Market, the opposition claimed that her trip was merely a political junket.
As soon as he learned of its existence, the dictator ordered the execution of all of the members of the junta.
He was more a student of jurisprudence than a practitioner of the law.
Comparison will be easier if you juxtapose the two objects.
People found a new source of entertainment while peering through the kaleidoscope; they found the ever-changing patterns fascinating.
I cannot answer your question since this matter is beyond my ken.
At breakfast we had all been enjoying our bacon and eggs until that killjoy John started talking about how bad animal fats and cholesterol were for our health.
Her teacher's praise kindled a spark a hope inside her.
Tom Sawyer and Huck Finn were two kindred spirits.
Designers of the electric automobile find that their greatest obstacle lies in the development of light and efficient storage batteries, the source of the kinetic energy needed to propel the vehicle.
kismet is the Arabic word for "fate."
They discovered that the wealthy customer was a kleptomaniac when they caught her stealing some cheap trinkets.
We cannot condone such knavery in public officials.
Her hands grew strong from kneading bread.
The curfew tolls the knell of parting day.
Whenever David worries, his brow knits in a frown.
Robert Louis Stevenson's grave is on a knoll in Samoa; to reach the grave site, you must climb uphill and walk a short distance along a marked path.
What to Watson had been a knotty problem to Sherlock Holmes was simplicity itself.
The singer complacently received kudos on his performance from his entourage.
Because the hormonal changes they undergo affect their spirits, adolescents may become emotionally labile and experience sudden shifts of mood.
In putting together his dictionary of the English language, Doctor Johnson undertook a laborious task.
Tom and Becky were lost in the labyrinth of secret caves.
Her body was lacerated in the automobile crash.
His voice has a lachrymose quality that is more appropriate at a funeral than a class reunion.
He was lackadaisical and indifferent about his part in the affair.
We were disappointed by the lackluster performance.
Many of the characters portrayed by Clint Eastwood are laconic types: strong men of few words.
The sailor had been taught not to be laggard in carrying out orders.
They enjoyed their swim in the calm lagoon.
The laity does not always understand the clergy's problems.
It was painful to watch the champion lambaste his opponent, tearing into him mercilessly.
Even advocates of the war lamented the loss of so many lives in combat.
This article lampoons the pretensions of some movie moguls.
Her siege of illness left her languid and pallid.
In stories, lovelorn damsels used to languish and pine away.
His friends tried to overcome the languor into which he had fallen by taking him to parties and to the theater.
lank, gaunt, Abraham Lincoln was a striking figure.
Because of the prisoner's record, the district attorney refused to reduce the charge from grand larceny to petit larceny.
The first thing Bill did on returning home from school was to check what snacks his mother had in the larder.
Lady Bountiful distributed largess to the poor.
Because they might arouse lascivious impulses in their readers, the lewd books were banned by the clergy.
The hot, tropical weather created a feeling of lassitude and encouraged drowsiness.
Her latent talent was discovered by accident.
In order to get good plant growth, the gardener must pinch off all lateral shoots.
I think you have permitted your son too much latitude in this matter.
His laudable deeds will be remarked by all whom he aided.
The critics' laudatory comments helped to make her a star.
The actor's lavish gifts pleased her.
The effect of the constipation medicine is laxative; it empties the bowels.
We dislike restaurants where the service is lax and inattentive.
As bread dough is leavened, it puffs up, expanding in volume.
In his youth he led a life of lechery and debauchery; he did not mend his ways until middle age.
The chaplain delivered his sermon from a hastily improvised lectern.
Don't eat sushi at this restaurant; I'm a bit leery about how fresh it is.
When you set a deadline, allow a little leeway.
Part of my legacy from my parents is an album of family photographs.
The legend at the bottom of the map made it clear which symbols stood for rest areas along the highway and which stood for public camp sites.
The magician demonstrated his renowned legerdemain.
Considering the gravity of the offense, we were surprised by the leniency of the sentence.
He was leonine in his rage.
It is unwise to leave lethal weapons where children may find them.
The stuffy room made her lethargic; she felt as if she was about to nod off.
As the river rose and threatened to overflow the levee, emergency workers rushed to reinforce the walls with sandbags.
As the magician passed his hands over the recumbent body of his assistant, she appeared to rise and levitate about three feet above the table.
Stop giggling abd wriggling around in the pew; such levity is improper in church.
Crying "No taxation withouth representation," the colonists demonstrated against England's power to levy taxes.
They found his lewd stories objectionable.
The new dictionary is the work of many lexicographers who spent years compiling and editing the work.
I cannot find this word in any lexicon in the library.
Her lack of an extensive vocabulary was a liability that she was able to overcome.
As the liason, he had to avoid offending the leaders of the two armies.
He sued the newspaper because of its libelous story.
 Although she was aware of his reputation as a libertine, she felt she could reform him and help him break his dissolute way of life.
They objected to his libidinous behavior.
The psychiatrist maintained that suppression of the libido often resulted in maladjustment and neuroses.
The composer of an opera's music is remembered more frequently than the author of its libretto.
The licentious monarch helped bring about his country's downfall.
There was a delay before Ralph could take possession of his late uncle's home; apparently, another claimant had a lien upon the estate.
Petrified wood may be ligneous in appearance, but it is stonelike in composition.
Tiny and delicate, the model was built on a lilliputian scale.
Hours of ballet classes kept him limber.
Among the divisions of Hell are Purgatory and limbo.
Parodoxically, the more realistic the details this artist chooses, the better able to limn her fantastic, other-worldly landscapes.
A limpid stream ran through his property.
He traced his lineage back to Mayflower days.
She quickly sketched the lineaments of his face.
The modern tourist will encounter very little linguistic difficulty as English has become an almost universal language.
She enjoyed being lionized and adored by the public.
He was able to liquidate all his debts in short period of time.
We had expected him to be full of enthusiasm and were surprised by his listless attitude.
That flagpole should be absolutely vertical; instead, it lists to one side.
On this solemn day, the congregation responded to the prayers of the priest during the litany with fervor and intensity.
Her figure was lithe and willowy.
Try to settle this amicably; I do not want to start litigation.
To say, "He little realizes," when we mean that he does not realize at all, is an example of the kind of understatement we call litotes.
His face was so livid with rage that we were afraid that he might have an attack of apoplexy.
We loathed the wicked villain.
They were both loath for him to go.
If this lode that we have discovered extends for any distance, we have found a fortune.
They used to tease him about his lofty ambitions.
The policeman told him not to loiter in the alley.
They lolled around in their chairs watching television.
When he reached ninety, the old man was proud of his longevity.
As the horses loped along, we had an opportunity to admire the ever-changing scenery.
She is very loquacious and can speak on the telephone for hours.
The delivery boy is an awkward lout.
From the hilltop, they could see the herd like ants in the distance; they could barely hear the cattle low.
Her explanation was lucid enought for a child to grasp.
He turned his hobby into a lucrative profession.
Preferring lucre to undying fame, he wrote stories of popular appeal.
Let us be serious; this is not a ludicrous issue.
The lugabrious howling of the dogs added to our sadness.
Not wanting to get wet, they waited under the awning for a lull in the rain.
Still somewhat torpid after its long hibernation, the bear lumbered through the woods.
In buying light bulbs, she checked not only their power, as measured in watts, but their brightness, as measured in lumens.
A leading light of the American stage, Ethel Barrymore was a theatrical luminary whose name lives on.
The sun is a luminous body.
lunar craters can be plainly seen with the aid of a small telescope.
The lurid stories he told shocked his listeners.
Who knows what evils lurk in the hearts of men? The shadow knows.
The ripe peach was luscious.
The soft luster of the silk in the dim light was pleasing.
Her large and lustrous eyes gave a touch of beauty to an otherwise drab face.
Farming was easy in this luxuriant soil.
The city morgue is a macabre spot for the uninitiated.
The strawberries had been soaking in the champagn for so long that they had begun to macerate: they literally fell apart at the touch of a spoon.
The Grand Marshal of the parade raised his mace to signal that it was time for the procession to begin.
I do not think he will be a good embassador because he is not accustomed to the machiavellian maneuverings of foreign diplomats.
I can see through your wily machinations.
Instead of writing that Gorbachev had a birthmark on his forehead, the pompous young poet sang of the former premier's maculated brow.
His program of folk songs included several madrigals which he sang to the accompaniment of a lute.
The canoe was tossed about in the maelstrom.
The learned doctor laid down the law to his patient in a magisterial tone of voice.
Noted for his magnanimity, philanthropist Eugene Lang donated millions to charity.
The steel magnate decided to devote more time to city politics.
In their stories of the trial, the reporters ridiculed the magniloquent speeches of the defense attorney.
It is difficult to comprehend the magnitude of his crime.
The hospital could not take care of all who had been mangled or maimed in the railroad accident.
In his usual maladroit way, he managed to upset the cart and spill the food.
She felt a sudden vague malaise when she heard sounds at the door.
When Mrs. Malaprop criticizes Lydia for being "as headstrong as an allegory on the banks of the Nile," she confuses "allegory" and "allegator" in a typical malapropism.
He was one of the few malcontents in the Congress; he constantly voiced his objections to the Presidential program.
The witch uttered maledictions against her captors.
We must try to bring these malefactors to justice.
We must thwart his malevolent schemes.
The authorities did not discover the campaign manager's malfeasance until after he had spent most of the money he had embezzled.
The malicious neighbor spread the gossip.
This is a malignant disease; we must have to use drastic measures to stop its spread.
Because of her hatred of the family, she maligns all who are friendly to them.
The captain ordered the sergeant to punish all malingerers and force them to work.
Gold is a malleable metal.
The component heap was most malodorous in summer.
Many people regard the whale as a fish and do not realize that it is a mammal.
The mammoth corporations of the twentieth century are a mixed blessing
The police immediately manacled the prisoner so he could not escape.
In his inaugural address, the President stated that he had a mandate from the people to seek an end to social evils such as poverty and poor housing.
These instructions are mandatory; any violation will be severely punished.
We finally thew out the mangy rug that the dog had destroyed.
His maniacal laughter frightened us.
Mozart's early attraction to the harsichord was the first manifestation of his pronounced musical bent.
The Communist Manifesto by Marx and Engels proclaimed the principles of modern communism.
His evil intentions were manifest and yet we could not stop him.
I cannot begin to tell you how much I appreciate your manifold kindnesses.
How do you manipulate these puppets?
Attempting to copy the style of his wealthy neighbors, Gatsby adopted a mannered, artificial way of speech.
Enlightened slave owners were willing to manumit their slaves and thus put an end to the evil slavery in the country.
After the publication of his book on marital affairs, he was often consulted by married people on the verge of divorce.
The maritime Provinces depend on the sea for their wealth.
No marked difference can be noticed
He walked with a marked limp, a souvenir of an old IRA attack. As British ambassador, he knew he was a marked man.
She had to refinish the marred surface of the table.
At a debate tournament, extemporaneous speakers have only a minute or two to marshal their thoughts before addressing their audience.
The most common marsupial in North America is the opposum.
The sound of marital music was always inspiring to the young poet.
The commanding officer was a martinet who observed each regulation to the ltter.
Some historians claim the Nile Valley was the matrix of the Western civilization.
The masochist begs, "Hit me." The sadist smiles and says, "I won't."
We must masticate our food carefully and slowly in order to avoid digestive disorders.
By its nature, materialism is opposed to idealism, for where the materialist emphasizes the needs of the body, the idealist emphasizes the needs of the soul.
Many animals display maternal instincts only while their offspring are young and helpless.
The matriarch ruled her gypsy tribe with a firm hand.
I do not like such maudlin pictures. I call them tearjerkers.
The rock star was mauled by his overexcited fans.
His body was placed in the family mausolem.
The mauve tint in the lilac bush was another indication that spring had finally arrived.
To the masculine literary establishment, George Sand with her insistence on wearing trousers and smoking cigars was clearly a maverick who fought her proper womanly role.
Your mawkish sighs fill me with disgust.
Aesop's fables illustrate moral maxims.
The riot was marked not only by mayhem, with its attendant loss of life and limb, but also by arson and pillage.
His salary was far too meager for him to afford to buy a new car.
Rather than tell Jill directly what he disliked, Jack made a few mealymouthed comments and tried to change the subject.
It is difficult to sail up this stream because of the way it meanders through the countryside.
He felt his marriage was suffering because of his meddlesome mother-in-law.
Let us mediate out differences rather than engage in a costly strike.
We were disappointed because he gave a rather mediocre performance in this role.
She reached her decision only after much meditation.
The band played a medley of Gershwin tunes.
Mr. Barrett never expected his meek daughter would dare to defy him by eloping with her suitor.
Developers who spend millions trying to build the world's tallest skyscraper suffer from megalomania.
The captain tried to ascertain the cause of the melee that had broken out among the crew members.
Italian is a mellifluous language.
Take this book as a memento of your visit.
Let us memorialize his great contribution by dedicating this library in his honor.
He was pathological liar, and his friends learned to discount his mendacious stories.
From the moment we left the ship, we were surrounded by mendicants and peddlers.
I cannot understand why a person of your ability and talent should engage in such menial activities.
During this very trying period, she could not have had a better mentor, for the teacher was sympathetic and understanding.
I am more interested in the opportunites available in the mercantile field than I am in those in the legal profession.
I'm not in this war because I get my kicks waving flags, said the mercenary soldier. "I'm in it for the dough."
He was of a mercurial temperament and therefore unpredictable.
Her jewels were inexpensive but not meretricious.
When the firm's president married the director of financial planning, the office joke was that it wasn't a marriage, it was a merger.
The incessant drone seemed to mesmerize him and place him in a trance.
During the course of his metallurgical research, the scientist developed a steel alloy of tremendous strength.
The metamorphosis of caterpillar to butterfly is typical of many such changes in animal life.
He soared like an eagle is an example of a simile; "He is an eagle in flight," is a metaphor.
The modern poets have gone back to the fanciful poems of the metaphysical poets of the seventeenth century for many of their images.
We all wondered at his meteoric rise to fame.
He tried to be impartial in his efforts to mete out justice.
An accountant must be methodical and maintain order among his financial records.
He was meticulous in checking his accounts and never made mistakes.
Every evening this terminal is filled with the thousands of commuters who are going from this metropolis to their homes in the suburbs.
When challenged by the other horses in the race, the thoroughbred proved its mettle by its determination to hold the lead.
 The smog hung over Victorian London like a dark cloud; noisome, reeking of decay, it was a visible miasma.
In the microcosm of our rural village, we find illustrations of all the evils that beset the universe.
These migrant birds return every spring.
The return of the migratory birds to the northern sections of this country is a harbinger of spring.
His milieu is watercolors, although he has produced excellent oil paintings and lithographs.
Althoughat this time he was advocating a policy of neutrality, one could usually find him adopting a more militant attitude.
Your record of lateness and absence will militate against your chances of promotion.
I do not expect the milennium to come during my lifetime.
The millinery displayed fashionable hats in the street where many women passed by.
Her gift for mimicry was so great that her friends said that she should be in the theater.
Jabbing a minatory forefinger at Dorothy, the Wicked Witch cried, "I'll get you, and your little dog, too!"
Yum-Yum walked across the stage with mincing steps.
He was always accompanied by several of his minions because he enjoyed their subservience and flattery.
Why should I involve myself with a project with so minuscule a chance for success?
The twins resembled one another closely; only minute differences set them apart.
She would have liked to ignore the minutiae of daily living.
The lost prospector was fooled by a mirage in the desert.
Their rear wheels became mired in mud.
Sober Malvolio found Sir Toby's mirth improper.
The young explorer met death by misadventure.
We thought the hermit was a miantrope because he shunned our society.
To avoid msapprehension, I am going to ask all of you to repeat the instructions I have given.
This is an interesting miscellany of nineteenth-century prose and poetry.
By mischance, he lost his week's salary.
She took the passage seriously rather than humourously because she misconstrued the author's ironic tone.
His kindness to the miscreant amazed all of us who had expected to hear severe punishment pronounced.
The culprit pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor rather than face trial for a felony.
The miserly old man hoarded his coins not out of prudence but out of greed.
Hamlet described his misgivings to Horatio but decided to fence with Laertes despite his foreboding of evil.
With a little care you could have avoided this mishap.
His tyrannical conduct proved to all that his nickname, King Eric the Just, was a misnomer.
He remained a bachelor not because of misogamy but because of ill fate: his fiancee died before the wedding.
She accused him of being a misogynist because he had been a bachelor all his life.
Scientists are experimenting with guided missiles.
The ambassador received a missive from the Secretary of State.
Gnats are annoying mites that sing.
Nothing he did could mitigate her wrath; she was unforgiving.
He used mnemonic tricks to master new words.
The mobile blood bank operated by the Red Cross visited our neighborhood today.
She was not used to their lavish mode of living.
Although his story is based on a modicum of truth, most of the events he describes are fictitious.
She always discarded all garments that were no longer modish.
When we she spoke, it was with quiet modulation of voice.
The oil moguls made great profits when the price of gasoline rose.
In chemistry, we study how atoms and molcules react to form new substances.
We tried to mollify the hysterical child by promising her many gifts.
Don't mollycoddle the boy, Maud! You'll spoil him.
The city of Pompeii was destroyed by volcanic ash rather than by molten lava flowing from Mount Vesuvius.
The male robin molted in the spring.
On this momentous occasion, we must be very solemn.
The car lost momentum as it tried to ascend the steep hill.
England today remains a monarchy.
Wanting to live a religious life, he took his monastic vows.
Jane held the family purse strings: she made all monetary decisions affecting the household.
Most people who are color blind actually can distinguish several colors; some, however, have a truly monochromatic view of a world all in shades of gray.
Knowing the importance of appearing resolute, the patriots sought to present a monolithic front.
Abraham was the first to proclaim his belief in monotheism.
He took a clerical job, but soon grew to hate the monotony of his daily routine.
Writing a dictionary is a monumental task.
We could not discover the cause of her recurrent moodiness.
If we declare a moratorium and delay collection of debts for six months, I am sure the farmers will be able to meet their bills.
These morbid speculations are dangerous; we must lighten our spirits by emphasizing more pleasant matters.
Actors feared the critic's mordant pen.
The mores of Mexico are those of Spain with some modifications.
The doctors called the family to the bedside of the moribund patient.
When we first meet Hamlet, we find him morose and depressed.
The mortician prepared the corpse for burial.
She was so mortified by her blunder that she ran to her room in tears.
The mayor compared the ciry to a beautiful mosaic made up of people of every race and religion on earth.
The tiniest mote in the eye is very painful.
This simple motif runs throughout the score.
Certain organisms exhibit remarkable motility; motile spores, for example, may travel for miles before coming to rest.
The captain had gathered a motley crew to sail the vessel.
When he blushed, his face took on a mottled hue.
The patent medicine man was a mountebank.
His thoughts were muddled and chaotic.
August in New York City is often muggy.
The lawyer was accused of trying to mulct the boy of his legacy.
A career woman and mother, she was constantly busy with the multifarious activities of her daily life.
Snowflakes are multiform but always hexagonal.
Because they are bordered by so many countries, the Swiss people are multilingual.
He was appalled by the multuplicity of details he had to complete before setting out on his mission.
He was concerned only with mundane matters, especially the daily stock market quotations.
The munificent gift was presented to the bride by her rich uncle.
The murkiness and fog of the waterfront that evening depressed me.
For a moment he mused about the beauty of the scene, but his thought soon changed as he recalled his own personal problems.
She left a trace of musky perfume behind her.
Washington mustered his forces at Trenton.
The attic was dark and musty.
His opinion were mutable and easily influenced by anyone who had any powers of persuasion.
In the funeral parlor, the mourners' voices had a muted quality.
The torturer threatened to mutilate his victim.
The captain had to use force to quiet his mutinous crew.
The child muttered at the doll.
In thinking only of your present needs and ignoring the future, you are being rather myopic.
myriads of mosquitoes from the swamps invaded our village every twilight.
Although few people realized it, the Dow-Jones averages had reached their nadir and would soon begin an upward surge.
I cannot believe that such naivete is unassumed in a person of her age and experience.
A narcissist is his own best friend.
A born teller of tales, Olsen used her impressive narrative skills to advantage in her story "I Stand Here Ironing."
If we could identify these revolutionary movements in their nascent state, we would be able to eliminate serious trouble in later years.
The Red Cross emphasizes the need for courses in natation.
Priding himself on being a natty dresser, the gangster Bugsy Siegel collected a wardrobe of imported suits and ties.
The foul smells began to nauseate him.
The Maritime Museum contains many models of clipper ships, logbooks, anchors and many other items of a nautical nature.
She had only a nebulous memory of her grandmother's face.
Because he was able to perform feats of necromancy, the natives thought he was in league with the devil.
He was universally feared because of his many nefarious deeds.
I must accept his argument since you have been unable to present any negation of his evidence.
negligence can prove costly near complicated machinery.
Because the damage to his car had been negligible, Michael decided he wouldn't bother to report the matter to his insurance company.
Captain Bligh vowed to be Christian's nemesis.
As we invent new techniques and professions, we must also invent neologisms such as "microcomputer" and "astronaut" to describe them.
This monuntain slope contains slides that will challenge esperts as well as neophytes.
John left his position with the company because he felt that advancement was based on nepotism rather than ability.
Tradition locates hell in the nether regions.
Do not let him nettle you with his sarcastic remarks.
I fail to see the nexus that binds these two widely separated events.
The nibs of fountain pens often become clotted and corroded.
I cannot distinguish between such niceties of reasoning.
The niggardly pittance the widow receives from the government cannot keep her from poverty.
Let's not niggle over details.
nihilism holds that existence has no meaning.
Despite his desire to achieve nirvana, the young Buddhist found that even the buzzing of a fly could distract him from his meditation.
Mr. Jones obtained a watchdog to prevent the nocturnal raids on his chicken coops.
I never could stand the noisome atmosphere surrounding the slaughter houses.
Several nomadic tribes of Indians would hunt in this area each year.
She struggled to master scientific nomenclature.
He offered to drive her to the airport for only a nominal fee.
Few people could understand how he could listen to the news of the tragedy with such nonchalance; the mahority regarded him as callous and unsympathetic.
We were annoyed by his noncommittal reply for we had been led to expect definite assurances of his approval.
The private detective was a short, nondescript fellow with no ourstanding features, the sort of person one would never notice in a crowd.
Don't dismiss John as a nonentity; in his quiet way, he's very important to the firm.
Jack's uncharacteristic rudeness nonplussed Jill, leaving her uncertain how to react.
The first settlers found so much work to do that they had little time for nostalgia.
No quack selling nostrums is going to cheat me.
To the starlet, any publicity was good publicity: if she couldn't have a good reputation, she'd settle for notoriety.
 The computer is no longer a novelty around the office.
Even a novice can do good work if he follows these simple directions.
We must trace the source of these noxious gases before they asphyxiate us.
The unskilled eye of the layperson has difficulty in dicerning the nuances of color in the paintings.
Mrs. Bennet, in Pride and Prejudice by Jane Austen, was worried about finding suitable husbands for her five nubile daughters.
This agreement is nugatory for no court will enforce it.
Once the contract was nullified, it no longer had any legal force.
The numismatist had a splendid collection of antique coins.
Their nuptial ceremony was performed in Golden Gate Park.
The head Start program attempts to nurture prekindergarten children so that they will do well when they enter public school.
As a budding nutritionist, Kim has learned to design diets that contain foods rich in important basic nutrients.
He called the unfortunate waiter a clumsy oaf.
He was obdurate in his refusal to listen to our complaints.
She made an obeisance as the king and queen entered the room.
Cleopatra's Needle is an obelisk in New York City's Central Park.
It is advisable that obese people try to lose weight.
Do not obfuscate the issues by dragging in irrelevant arguments.
I first learned of her death when I read the obituary in the newspaper.
A degree in medicine was her ultimate objective.
Even though he was her son, she tried to be objective about his behavior.
It is obligatory that books borrowed from the library be returned within two weeks.
The sergeant ordered the men to march "oblique right."
The tidal wave obliterated several island villages.
Her work had fallen into a state of oblivion; no one bothered to read them.
I resent the obloquy that you are casting upon my reputation.
I find your behavior obnoxious; please mend your ways.
Even after I read the poem a fourth time, its meaning was still obscure.
At times he seemed purposely to obscure his meaning, preferring mystery to clarity.
Helen valued people who behaved as if they respected themselves; nothing irritated her more than an excessively obsequious waiter or a fawning salesclerk.
Hundreads paid their last respects at his obsequies.
This obsession with the supernatural has made him unpopular with his neighbors.
The deposits of obsidian on the mountain slopes were an indiacation that volcano had erupted in ancient times.
Hip is an obsolete expression; it went out with love beads and tie-dye shirts.
Unlike midwives, who care for women giving birth at home, obstetricians generally work in a hospital setting.
We tried to persuade him to give up smoking, but he was obstinate and refused to change.
The crowd became obstreperous and shouted their disapproval of the proposals made by the speaker.
I found her a very obstrusive person, constantly seeking the center of the stage.
Because he was so obtuse, he could not follow the teacher's reasoning and asked foolish questions.
I hope this contribution will obviate any need for further collections of funds.
It will take occident to understand the ways and customs of the orient.
A blood clot occluded an artery to the heart.
The occult rites of the organization were revealed only to members.
In many states, an oculist is the only one who may apply medicinal drops to the eyes for the purpose of examining them.
I find the task of punishing you most odious.
I cannot express the odium I feel at your heinous actions.
The odoriferous spices stimulated her jaded appetite.
This variety of hybrid tea rose is more odorous than the one you have in your garden.
The refugee's journey from Cambodia was a terrifying odyssey.
Getting into street brawls is no minor offense for professional boxers, who are required by law to restrict their offensive impulses to the ring.
Expecting to be treated with due propriety by her costs, Great-Aunt Maud was offended by their offhand manner.
After her long flight, Jill just wanted to nap, but the officious bellboy was intent on showing her all the special features of the deluxe suite.
Sitting for hours at the sidewalk cafe, the old gentleman would oggle the young girls and recall his youthful romances.
The olfactory organ is the nose.
The feudal oligarchy was supplanted by an autocracy.
Those clouds are ominous; they suggest that a severe storm is on the way.
The monarch regarded himself as omnipotent and responsible to no one for his acts.
On Christmas Eve, Santa Claus is omnipotent.
I do not pretend to be omniscient, but I am positive about this fact.
Some animals, including humans, are omnivorous and eat both meat and vegetables; others are either carnivorous or herbivorous.
He asked for an assistant because his work load was too onerous.
Words like "rustle" and "gargle" are illustrations of onomatopoeia.
We suffered many casualties during unexpected onslaght of the enemy troops.
The emperor was spared the onus of signing the surrender papers; instead, he relegated the assignment to his generals.
The Ancient Mariner admired the opalescent sheen on the water.
The opaque window kept the sunlight out of the room.
By such opiates, she made the people forget their difficulties and accept their unpleasant circumstances.
You have come at an opportune moment for I need a new secretary.
Forget about ethics! He's such an opportunist that he'll vote in favor of any deal that will give him a break.
He refused to defend himself against the slander and opprobrium hurled against him by the newspapers; he preferred to rely on his record.
The patient took the prescription given him by his oculist to the optician.
The pessimist says the glass is half-empty; the optimist says it is half-full.
If you wait for the optimum moment to act, you may never begin your project .
I was impressed by the range of optional accessories for my microcomputer that were available.
Although an optometrist is qualified to treat many eye disorders, she may not use medicinesor surgery in her examinations.
The glitter and opulence of the ballroom took Cinderella's breath away.
Although many critics hailed his Fifth Symphony, he did not regard it as his major opus.
Oedipus could not understand the oracular warning he received.
The Glee Club decided to present an oratorio during their recital.
The king ordained that no foreigner should be allowed to enter the city.
Terry Anderson spoke movingly of his long ordeal as a hostage in Lebanon.
Passing a red light is a violation of a city ordinance.
The candidate for ordination had to meet with the bishop and the diocean officers before being judged ready to be ordained a deacon.
Freshman orientation provides the incoming students with an opportunity to learn about their new environment and their place in it.
Philip spent his first day in Denver orienting himself to the city.
The Howe Caverns were discovered when someone observed that a cold wind was issuing from an orifice in the hillside.
Furniture of the Baroque period can be recognized by its ornate carvings.
Auduborn's drawings of American bird life have been of interest not only to the ornithologists but also to the general public.
Faced with a problem, he preferred to take an orthodox approach rather than shock anyone.
Many of us find English orthography difficult to master because so many of our words are written phonetically.
It is interesting to note how public opinion oscillates between the extremes of optimism and pessimism.
The hollow "soft spot" found at the top of the infant's skull gradually closes as new osseus tissue fills in the gap.
When he called his opponent a "bonehead," he implied that his adversary's brain had ossified and that he was not capable of clear thinking.
Although the ostensible purpose of this expedition is to discover new lands, we are really interested in finding new markets for our products.
Trump's latest casino in Atlantic City is the most ostentatious gambling place in the East: it easily outglitters its competitors.
As soon as the newspapers carried the story of his connection with the criminals, his friends began to ostracize him.
The world wondered if Aquino would be able to oust Marcos from office.
The eccentric professor who engages in markedly outlandish behavior is a stock figure in novels with an academic setting.
Unconcerned about keeping in style, Lenore was perfectly happy to wear outmoded clothes as long as they were clean and unfrayed.
Jesse Owens easily outstripped his competitors to win the gold metal at the Olympic Games.
Living outskirts of Boston, Sarah sometimes felt as if she were cut off from the cultural heart of the city.
The candidate was too outspoken to be a successful politician; he had not yet learned to weigh his words carefully.
By disguising himself as an old woman, Holmes was able to outwit his pursuers and escape capture.
When Placido Domingo came on stage in the first act of La Boheme, he was greeted by a tremendous ovation.
 Certain of her own importance and of the unimportance of everyone else, Lady Bracknell was intolerably overbearing in manner. "In choosing a husband," she said, "good birth is of overbearing importance; compared to that, neither wealth nor talent signifie
It is necessary for the engineers of NASA to overhaul the rocket everyday; otherwise, an incident similar to that of Challenger accident might happen.
According to the United States Constitution, a person must commit an overt act before he may be tried for treason.
His overweening pride in his accomplishments was not justified.
When Kate heard the news of the sudden tragedy, she became too overwrought to work and had to leave the office early.
At Easter she had to cut out hundreds of brightly colored ovoid shapes.
The elephant is probably the best-known pachyderm.
The pacifists urged that we reduce our military budget and recall our troops stationed overseas.
Dentists criticize the practice of giving fussy children sweets to pacify them.
paeans celebrating the victory filled the air.
The new high-frequency word list is the result of painstaking efforts on the part of our research staff.
Neither Jack's underbaked opinions nor his overcooked casseroles were palatable to me.
He proudly showed us through his palatial home.
 The professor of paleontology had a superb collection of fossils.
At the present time, art supply stores are selling a paper palette that may be discarded after use.
Using chemical reagents, scientists have been able to restore the original writings on many palimpsests.
The weary traveler went to sleep on his straw pallet.
If we cannot cure this disease at present, we can, at least try to palliate the symptoms.
Because his occupation required that he work at night and sleep during the day, he had an exceptionally pallid complexion.
The study of word lists can eventually pall and put one to sleep.
I cannot understand how you could overlook such a palpable blunder.
As he became excited, his heart began to palpitate more and more erratically.
This is a paltry sum to pay for such a masterpiece.
There is no easy panacea that will solve our complicated international situation.
Many performers imitate Noel Coward, but few have his panache and sense of style.
They feared the AIDS epidemic would soon reach pandemic proportions.
When the ships collided in the harbor, pandemonium broke out among the passengers.
The reviewer accused the makers of Lethal Weapon of pandering to the masses' taste of violence.
The modest hero blushed to hear the speakers delivering panegyrics about his valorous act.
On a clear day, from the top of the World Trade Center you can get a panoramic view of New York City and neighboring stretches of New Jersey and Long Island.
Because he worked in pantomime, the clown could be understood wherever he appeared.
Hoping for a rave review of his new show, the playwright was miserable when the critics panned it unanimously.
The ancient Egyptians were among the first to write on papyrus.
Let us apply to our own conduct the lesson that this parable teaches.
Pavlov's experiment in which he trains a dog to salivate on hearing a bell is a paradigm of the conditioned-response experiment in behavioal psychology.
Wordworth's "The child is father to the man" is an example of paradox.
The class disliked him because the teacher was always pointing him out as a paragon of virtue.
There is a striking parallelism between the twins.
We need to define the parameters of the problem.
Proper nutrition and hygiene are of paramount importance in adolescent development and growth.
She sought a divorce on the grounds that her husband had a paramour in another town.
Suffering from paranois, he claimed everyone was out to get him; ironically, his claim was accurate; even paranoids have enemies.
His desk was cluttered with paper, pen, ink, dictionary and other paraphernalia of the writing craft.
In 250 words or less, paraphrase this article.
The tapeworm is an example of the kind of parasite that may infest the human body.
The parched desert landscape seemed hostile to life.
I am not a pariah to be shunned and ostracized.
I find your analogy inaccurate because I do not see the parity between the two illustrations.
All this legal parlance confuses me; I need an interpreter.
The peace parley has not produced the anticipated truce.
Although Jane Austen writes novels set in small rural communities, her concerns are universal, not parochial.
We enjoyed the clever parodies of popular songs that the chorus sang.
When he heared of his son's misdeeds, he was seized by a paroxysm of rage.
In laying the floor, the carpenters combined redwood and oak in an elegant parquet.
He was content to wage a defensive battle and tried to parry his opponent's thrusts.
His parsimonious nature did not permit him to enjoy any luxuries.
As a judge, not only must I be unbiased, but I must also avoid any evidence of partiality when I award the prize.
I am extremely partial to chocolate eclairs.
In this issue we have published only a partial list of contributors because we lack space to acknowledge everyone.
On certain issues of conscience, she refused to take a partisan stand.
Her style is passe and reminiscent of the Victorian era.
Mahatma Gandhi urged his followers to pursue a program of passive resistance as he felt that it was more effective than violence and acts of terrorism.
We cannot even say that her music is a pastiche of this or that composer; it is rather, reminiscent of many musicians.
In these stories of pastoral life, we find an understanding of the daily tasks of country folk.
It was patent to everyone that the witness spoke the truth.
Everyone in the auditorium was weeping by the time he finished his pathetic tale about the orphaned boy.
As we study the pathological aspects of this disease, we must not overlook the psychological elements.
The quiet tone of pathos that ran through the novel never degenerated into the maudlin or the overly sentimental.
Judging by the patina on this bronze statue, we can conclude that this is the work of a medieval artist.
His years of study of the language at the university did not enable him to understand the patois of the natives.
In many primitive tribes, the leader and lawmaker was the patriarch.
We greatly admired her well-bred, patrician elegance
Experts in a field sometimes appear to patronize people who are less knowledgeable of the subject.
They closed the restaurant because the paucity of customers made it uneconomical to operate.
Though Widow Brown was living on a reduced income, she was by no means a pauper.
If we examine these escapades carefully, we will realize that they are mere peccadilloes rather than major crimes.
I never expected a pecuniary reward for my work in this activity.
He could never be a stuffy pedagogue; his classes were always lively and filled with humor.
Though Maria Montessori gained fame for her innovations in pedagogy, it took years before her teaching techniques became common practice in American schools.
Leaving his decisions with humorous, down-to-earth anecdotes, Judge Walker was not at all pedantic legal scholar.
Her insistence that the book be memorized marked the teacher as a pedant rather than a scholar.
Unintentionally boring, he wrote page after page of pedestrian prose.
The family doctor advised the parents to consult a pediatrician about their child's ailment.
Instead of criticizing Clinton's policies, the Republicans made pejorative remarks about his character.
The excited students dashed pellmell into the stadium to celebrate the victory.
After reading these stodgy philosophers, I find his pellucid style very enjoyable.
The Ancient Mariner said, "I have penance done and penance more will do," to atone for the sin of killing the albatross.
He had a strong penchant for sculpture and owned many statues.
Her pendant earrings glistened in the light.
The grateful team presented the coach with a silver chain and pendant engraved with the school's motto.
The pendulous chandeliers swayed in the breeze as if they were about to fall from the ceiling.
When he realized the enormity of his crime, he became remorseful and penitent.
The pensive youth gazed at the painting for a long time and then sighed.
During an eclipse, we can see an area of total darkness and a lighter area, which is the penumbra.
He was a penurious man, averse to spending money even for the necessities of life.
When his pension fund failed, George feared he would end his days in penury.
The land reformers sought to liberate the peons and establish them as independent farmers.
Although Maud was a generally perceptive critic, she had her blind sports: she could never see flaws in the work of her friends.
The drum is a percussion instrument.
Praying for salvation, young Daedalus feared he was damned to eternal perdition.
Auntie Mame was a world traveler whose peregrinations took her from Tiajuana to Timbuctoo.
From Jack's peremptory knock on the door, Jill could tell he would not give up until she let him in.
Tese plants are hardy perennials and will bloom for many years.
Before you can open the aspirin bottle, you must first perforate the plastic safety seal that covers the cap.
The auditor's perfunctory inspection of the books overlooked many errors.
When Caesar realized that Brutus had betrayed him, he reproached his perfidious friend.
The rocket which was designed to take photographs of the moon was launched as the moon approached its perigee.
To find the perimeter of any quadrilateral, we add the lengths of the four sides.
The peripatetic school of philosophy derives its name from the fact that Aristotle walked with his pupils while discussing philosophy with them.
We lived, not in central London, but in one of those peripheral suburbs that spring up on the outskirts of the great city.
He sensed that there was something just beyond the periphery of his vision.
When several witnesses appeared to challenge his story, he was indicted for perjury.
Glass is permeable to light.
He argued that these books had a pernicious effect on young and susceptible minds.
The peroration was largely hortatory and brought the audience to its feet clamoring for action at its close.
Only an insane person could perpetrate such a horrible crime.
Ponce de Leon hoped to find perpetual youth.
The perquisites attached to this job make it even more attractive than the salary indicates.
The man I am seeking to fill this position must be personable since he will be representing us before the public.
The brillant lawyer was known for his perspicacious deductions.
One of the outstanding features of this book is the perspicuity of its author; her meaning is always clear.
Her perspicuous comments eliminated all posibility of misinterpretation.
He is bound to succeed because his pertinacious nature will not permit him to quit.
The lawyer wanted to know all the pertinent details.
I am afraid this news will perturb him and cause him grief.
I think your pert and impudent remarks call for an apology.
I am certain that you have missed important details in your rapid perusal of this document.
Despite airing them for several hours, she could not rid her clothes of the pervasive odor of mothbals that clung to them.
When Hannibal Lecter was in a perverse mood, he ate the flesh of his victims.
Inasmuch as he had no motive for his crimes, we could not understand his perversion.
The good news we have been receiving lately indicates that there is little reason for your pessimism.
People were afraid to explore the pestilential swap.
From the way in which the elderly pharmacist pounded the drug with his pestle, young George could tell that his employer was agitated about something.
He was a pest; always bothering people.
His sudden and unexpected appearance seemed to petrify her.
She had no major complaints to make about his work, only a few petty quibbles that were almost too minor to state.
The feverish patient was petulant and restless.
Walter Lippmann has pointed out that moralists who do not attempt to explain the moral code they advocate are often regarded as pharisaical and ignored.
We kept careful records of the phenomena we noted in the course of these experiments.
Swearing he had never so much as looked at another woman, Jack assured Jill he was no philanderer.
As he grew older, he became famous as a philanthropist and benefactor of the needy.
When she heard the value of the Penny Black stamp, Phyllis was inspired to become a philatelist.
We need more men of culture and enlightenment; we have too many philistines among us.
The professor of philology advocated the use of Esperanto as an international language.
The nurse was a cheerful but phlegmatic person, unexcited in the face of sudden emergencies.
Her fear of flying was more than mere nervousness; it was a real phobia.
He prided himself on his ability to analyze a person's character by studying his physiognomy.
To understand this disease fully, we must examine not only its physiological aspects but also its psychological elements.
You should be able to identify Polka Dot in this race; he is the only piebald horse running.
The pied piper of Hamelin got his name from the multicolored clothing he wore.
Living her life in prayer and good works, Mother Teresa exemplifies the true sprit of piety.
Van Gogh mixed various pigments with linseed oil to create his paints.
 The enemy pillaged the quiet village and left it in ruins.
Even though he was mocked and pilloried, he maintained that he was correct in his beliefs.
Though she tried to be happy living with Clara in the city, Heidi pined for the mountains and for her gruff but loving grandfather.
They pinioned his arms against his body but left his legs free so that he could move about.
We could see the morning sunlight illuminate the pinnacle while the rest of the mountain lay in shadow.
The pious parents gave their children a religious upbringing.
The piquant sauce added to our enjoyment of the meal.
She showed her pique by her refusal to appear with the other contestants at the end of the contest.
He spent many happy hours at the lake in his piscatorial activities.
I enjoy reading his essays because they are always compact and pithy.
He could not live on the pittance he received as a pension and had to look for an additional source of revenue.
De Klerk's decision to set Nelson Mandela free was pivotal; without Mandela's release, there was no possibility that the African National Cogress would entertain talks with the South African government.
The teacher tried to placate the angry mother.
In a controlled experiment, fifty volunteers were given erythromycin tablets; the control group received only placebos.
After his vacation in this placid section, he felt soothed and rested.
The editor could tell that the writer had plagiarized parts of the article; he could recognize whole paragraphs from the original source.
The dove has a plaintive and melancholy call
When clay dries out, it loses its plasticity and becomes less malleable.
The platitudes in his speech were applauded by the vast majority in his audience; only a few people perceived how trite his remarks were.
Accused of impropriety in his dealings with female students, the professor maintained he had only a platonic interest in the women involved.
The theatrical company reprinted the plauditory comments of the critics in its advertisement.
Even though your argument is plausible, I still would like to have more proof.
His speeches were aimed at the plebeian minds and emotions; they disgusted the more refined.
The union leader was given plenary power to negotiate a new contract with the employers.
Looking in the pantry, we admired the plenitude of fruits and pickles we had preserved during the summer.
She offered a plethora of excuses for her shortcomings.
In remodeling the bathroom, we replaced all the old, rigid lead pipes with new, pliable copper tubing.
Catherine's disposition was pliant; she was like putty in her suitor's hands.
Even the adversaries of young Indiana Jones were impressed by the boy's pluck in trying to rescue the archeological treasure they had stolen.
Before hanging wallpaper it is advisable to drop a plumb line from the ceiling as a guide.
Stock prices plummeted as Wall Street reacted to the rise in interest rates.
From the way the government caters to the rich, you might think our society is a plutocracy rather than a democracy.
He consulted a podiatrist about his fallen arches.
The audience applauded as the conductor made his way to the podium.
Watching the tearful reunion of the long-separated mother and child, the social worker was touched by the poignancy of the scene.
The abortion issue has polarized the country into pro-choice and anti-abortion camps.
Her essays were, for the main part, polemics for the party's policy.
Even though he was disappointed, he did not think it politic to refuse the offer.
Our polity should be devoted to the concept that the government should strive for the good of all citizens.
He was arrested as a polygamist when his two wives filed complaints about him.
New York City is a polyglot community because of the thousands of immigrants who settle there.
Although the commencement speaker had some good things to say, we had to laugh at his pomposity and general air of parading his own dignity.
His humor lacked the light touch; his jokes were always ponderous.
From the very beginning of his ministry it was clear from his pontifical pronouncements that John was destined for a high pontifical office.
Determined to become a physician, Beth spends hours poring over her anatomy text.
Dancers like to wear porous clothing because it allows the ready passage of water and air.
The king did not know what these omens might portend and asked his soothsayers to interpret them.
He regarded the black cloud as a portent of evil.
The salesclerk tactfully referred to the overweight customer as portly rather than fat.
Some thought Dali was a brillant painter; others dismissed him as a poseur.
We hope to leave a better world to posterity.
The critics ignored his works during his lifetime; it was only after the posthumous publication of his last novel that they recognized his great talent.
We must accept these statements as postulates before pursuing our discussions any further.
No matter how much Arnold boasted or postured, I could not believe he was as important as he pretended to be.
The recent drought in the Middle Atlantic States has emphasized the need for extensive research in ways of making sea water potable.
The potentate spent more time at Monte Carlo than he did at home on his throne.
The juvenile delinquent is a potential murderer.
The jury was swayed by the highly potent testimony of the crime's sole eyewitness.
Tristan and Lsolde drink a love potion in the first act of the opera.
He offered a potpourri of folk songs from many lands.
He was advised to apply a flaxseed poultice to the inflammation.
The board of directors decided that the plan was practicable and agreed to undertake the project.
He was a practical man, opposed to theory
This coming trip to France should provide me with a pragmatic test of the value of my conversational French class.
No pragmatist enjoys becoming involved in a game that he can never win
Let us not prate about our qualities; rather, let our virtues speak for themselves.
The children prattle endlessly about their new toys.
In the preamble to the Constitution, the purpose of the document is set forth.
I think this stock is a precarious investment and advise against its purchase.
Our discussions, precedent to this event, certainly did not give you any reason to believe that we would adopt your proposal.
This decision sets a precedent for future cases of a similar nature.
Love thy neighbor as thyself is a worthwhile precept.
Suddenly Indiana Jones found himself dangling from the edge of a precipice.
Do not be precipitate in this matter; investigate further.
The removal of American political support appeared to have precipitated the downfall of the Marcos regime.
This hill is difficult to climb because it is so precipitous; one slip, and our descent will be precipitous as well.
If you don't give me precise directions and a map, I'll never find your place.
This contract does not preclude my being employed by others at the same time that I am working for you.
By her rather adult manner of discussing serious topics, the child demonstrated that she was precocious.
Though Gray and Burns share many traits with the Romantic poets who followed them, most critics consider them precursors of the Romantic Movement, not true Romantics.
The hawk is a predatory bird.
I hope I can live up to the fine example set by my late predecessor in this office.
Although the artist used various media from time to time, she had a predilection for watercolors.
The king traveled to Boston because he wanted the preeminent surgeon in the field to perform the operation.
Hoping to preempt any attempts by the opposition to make educational reform a hot political issue, the candidate set out her own plan to revitalize the public schools.
As Kitty preened before the mirror, carefully smoothing her shining hair, she couldn't help preening herself on her good looks.
The chairman made a few prefactory remarks before he called on the first speaker.
Monkeys use not only their arms and legs but also their prehensile tails in traveling through the trees.
The archbishop of Moscow and other high-ranking prelates visited the Russian Orthodox seminary.
I am afraid that this border raid is the prelude to more serious attacks.
She had premeditated the murder for months, reading about common poisons and buying weed killer that contained arsenic.
Because Jack had based his argument upon a faulty premise, his opponent cheerfully pointed out the holes in his logic.
We ignored these premonitions of disaster because they appeared to be based on childish fears.
You should have visited a doctor as soon as you felt these premonitory chest pains.
The rebels sought to overcome the preponderance of strength of the government forces by engaging in guerrilla tactics.
When the candidate tried to downplay his youthful experiments with marijuana by saying he hadn't inhaled,we all thought, "What a preposterous excuse!"
The President cannot levy taxes; that is the prerogative of the legislative branch of government.
The vultures flying overhead presaged the discovery of the corpse in the desert.
Given the current wave of Japan-bashing, it does not take prescience for me to foresee problems in our future trade relations with Japan.
Hamlet felt a presentiment about his meeting with Laertes.
The wealthy man sought to obtain social prestige by contributing to popular charities.
It seems presumptous for one so relatively new to the field to challenge the conclusions of its leading experts.
I do not feel that your limited resources will permit you to carry out such a pretentious program.
John's mother's total ability to tell when he was lying struck him as almost preternatural.
He looked for a good pretext to get out of paying a visit to his aunt.
He tried to prevail on her to type his essays for him.
A radical committed to social change, Reed had no patience with the conservative views prevalent in the America of his day.
Some people believe that to prevaricate in a good cause is justifiable and regard the statement as a "white lie."
In Stalking the Wild Asparagus, Euell Gibbons has as his prey not wild beasts but wild plants.
By virtue of primogeniture, in some cultures the first-born child has many privileges denied his brothers and sisters.
The Neanderthal Man is one of our primordial ancestors.
She primps for hours before a dance.
Many people commented on the contrast between the prim attire of the young lady and the inappropriate clothing worn by her escort.
This area has been preserved in all its pristine wildness.
In his youth, he knew hunger and privation.
We do not care for privy chamber of government.
The surgeon probed the wound for foreign matter before suturing it.
Everyone took his probity for granted; his defalcations, therefore, shocked us all.
Given the many areas of conflict still awaiting resolution, the outcome of the peace talks remains problematic.
The cross old lady has a proclivity to grumble.
It is wise not to procrastinate; otherwise, we find ourselves bogged down in a mass of work that should have been finished long ago.
The personnel department handles the procurement of new employees.
The prodigal son squandered his inheritance.
He marveled at her prodigious appetite when he saw all the food she ate.
Menuhin was a prodigy, performing wonders on his violin when he was barely eight years old.
If you prod him hard enough, he'll eventually clean his room.
Tourists are urged not to profane the sanctity of holy places by wearing improper garb.
In this profilgate company, she lost all sense of decency.
Freud's remarkable insights into human behavior caused his fellow scientists to honor him as a profound thinker.
Seldom have I seen food and drink served in such profusion as at the wedding feast.
The Roth family, whose progenitors emigrated from Germany early in the nineteenth century, settled in Peru, Illinois.
He was proud of his progeny but regarded George as the most promising of all his children.
If the doctor's prognosis is correct, the patient will be in a coma for at least twenty-four hours.
I prognosticate disaster unless we change our wasteful ways.
The super computer's price was prohibitive.
Man has always hurled projectiles at his enemy whether in the form of stones or of highly explosive shells.
The aristocrats feared mob rule and gave the right to vote only to the wealthy, thus depending the proletarians of a voice in government.
Times of economic hardship inevitably encourage countless get-rich-quick schemes to proliferate
She was a prolific writer who produced as many as three books a year.
Her prolix arguments irritated and bored the jury.
In their determination to discover ways to prolong human life, doctors fail to take into account that longer lives are not always happier ones.
Have you ever noticed that Prince Charles's prominent ears make him resemble the big-eared character in Mad comics?
In the opera La Boheme, we get a picture of the promiscuous life led by the young artists of Paris.
They erected a lighthouse on the promontory to warn approaching ships of their nearness to the shore.
Whatever prompted you to ask for such a big piece of cake when you're on a diet?
As soon as the Civil Service Commission promulgates the names of the successful candidates, we shall begin to hire members of our staff.
She was prone to sudden fits of anger.
Since bacteria propagate more quickly in unsanitary environments, it is important to keep hospital rooms clean.
The development of our missile program has forced our scientists to seek more powerful propellants.
Convinced of his own talent, Sol has an unfortunate propensity to belittle the talents of others.
 In interpreting Pharaoh's prophetic dream, Joseph said that the seven fat cows eaten by the seven lean cows represented seven years of plenty followed by seven years of famine.
Despite all prophylactic measures introduced by the authorities, the epidemic raged until cool weather set in.
Their relationship could not be explained as being based on mere propinquity: they were more than relatives; they were true friends.
The natives offered sacrifices to propitiate the gods.
I think it is advisable that we wait for a more propitious occasion to announce our plans; this is not a good time.
After the bill had been amended and re-amended in committee, even its original proponents didn't want to vote in its favor.
In you discussion, you have propounded several questions; let us consider each one separately.
I want you to behave at this dinner with propriety; don't embarass me.
The jet plane has a greater propulsive power than the engine-driven plane.
Though the ad writers had come up with a highly creative campaign to publicize the company's newest product, the head office rejected it for a more prosaic, down-to-earth approach.
In the theater-in-the-round there can be no proscenium or proscenium arch.
Antony, Octavius and Lepidus proscribed all those who had conspired against Julius Caesar.
In these interfaith meetings, there must be no attempt to proselytize; we must respect all points of view.
This book on prosody contains a rhyming dictionary as well as samples of the various verse forms.
Promising to stay together "for richer, for poorer," the newlyweds vowed to be true to one another in prosperity and hardship alike.
He prostrated himself before the idol.
A remarkably protean actor, Alec Guinness could take on any role.
We must run this state dinner according to protocol if we are to avoid offending any of our guests.
The crude typewriter on display in this museum is the prototype of the elaborate machines in use today.
Seeking to delay the union members' vote, the management team tried to protract the negotiations endlessly, but the union representatives saw through their strategy.
His fingers protruded from the holes in his gloves.
A ganglionic cyst is a fluid-filled tumor (generally benign) that develops near a joint membrane or tendon sheath, and that bulges beneath the skin, forming a protuberance.
I am not interested in its provenance; I am more concerned with its usefulness than with its source.
I am afraid of a severe winter because I have stored a large quantity of provender for the cattle.
In his usual provident manner, he had insured himself against this type of loss.
As provincial governor, Sir Henry administered the Queen's law in his remote corner of Canada.
The appointment is provisional; only on the approval of the board of directors will it be made permanent.
I am ready to accept your proposal with the two proviso that you meet your obligations within the next two weeks.
In order to prevent a sudden outbreak of hostilities, we must not provoke our foe.
The deer sensed the hunter's proximity and bounded away.
Please act as my proxy and vote for this slate of candidates in my absence.
A miser hoards money not because he is prudent but because he is greedy.
The X-rated film was definitely not for prudes.
With the help of her editor, she was able to prune her manuscript into publishable form.
Samuel Clemens' pseudonym was Mark Twain.
A psychiatrist often needs long conferences with his patient before a diagnosis can be made.
The psychopathic patient suffers more frequently from a disorder of the nervous system than from a diseased brain.
We must endeavor to find an outlet for the patient's repressed desires if we hope to combat this psychosis.
The remains of pterodactyls indicate that these flying reptiles had a wingspan of as much as twenty feet.
His puerile pranks sometimes offended his more mature friends.
The famous pugilist Cassius Clay changed his name to Muhammed Ali.
As a child he was pugnacious and fought with everyone.
We must keep his friendship for he will make a puissant ally.
I do not envy the judges who have to select this year's Miss America from this collection of female pulchritude.
In his researches on pulmonary diseases, he discovered many facts about the lungs of animals and human beings.
We could see the blood vessels in his temple pulsate as he became more angry.
Before sprinkling the dried herbs into the stew, Michael first pulverized them into a fine powder.
The severity with which he was pummeled was indicated by the bruises he displayed on his head and face.
We must be punctilious in our planning of this affair, for any error may be regarded as a personal affront.
Even though he discourses on the matter like a pundit, he is actually rather ignorant about this topic.
The pungency of the cigarette smoke made me cough.
He asked for punitive measures against the offender.
Our puny efforts to stop the flood were futile.
The mountaineer struggled to get a proper purchase on the slippery rock.
In this purgatory, he could expect no help from his comrades.
If you are to be purged of the charge of contempt of Congress, you must be willing to answer the questions previously asked.
If the purport of your speech was to arouse the rabble, you succeeded admirably.
As purveyor of rare wines and viands, he traveled through France and Italy every year in search of new products to sell.
You should be ashamed of your pusillanimous conduct during this dispute.
Although there are some doubts, the putative author of this work is Massinger.
The gangrenous condition of the wound was indicated by the putrid smell when the bandages were removed.
The mortician put pyre on the corpse before burning a corpse.
The detectives searched the area for the pyromaniac who had set these costly fires.
Do not be misled by the exorbitant claims of this quack; he cannot cure you.
Most mammals are quadrupeds.
As we quaffed our ale, we listened to the gay songs of the students in the tavern.
Up to her knees in mud, Myra wondered how on earth she was going to extricate herself from this quagmire.
He was afraid that he would quail in the face of danger.
Her quaint clothes and old-fashioned language marked her as an eccentric.
Unable to give the candidate full support, the mayor gave him only a qualified endorsement.
His qualms of conscience had become so great that he decided to abandon his plans.
When the two colleges to which he had applied accepted him, he was in a quandary as to which one he
We will have to place this house under quarantine until we determine the nature of the disease.
They quarried blocks of marble out of the hillside.
The police closed in on their quarry.
The authorities acted quickly to quash the student rebellion, sending in tanks to cow the demonstrators.
Because of the captain's carelessness, the ship crashed into the quay.
As the ship left the harbor, he became queasy and thought that he was going to suffer from seasickness.
The police used fire hoses and teat gas to quell the rioters.
His classmates were repelled by his querulous and complaining statements.
They stood patiently in the queue outside the movie theatre.
Do not quibble; I want a straightforward and definite answer.
After this geyser erupts, it will remain quiescent for twenty-four hours.
He was impressed by the air of quietude and peace that pervaded the valley.
Noel Coward displayed the quintessence of wit.
You are unpopular because you are too free with your quips and sarcastic comments.
By a quirk of fate, he found himself working for the man whom he had discharged years before.
In his conquest of Europe, Hitler was aided by the quislings who betrayed their own people and served in the puppet governments established by the Nazis.
Robin Hood reached back and plucked one last arrow from his quiver.
His head is in the clouds; he is constantly presenting these quixotic schemes.
Will Rogers' quizzical remarks endeared him to his audiences.
The senator asked for a roll call to determine whether a quorum was present.
To Philip, each new day of his internship was filled with excitement; he could not dismiss his rounds as merely quotidian routine.
He was a rabid follower of the Dodgers and watched them play whenever he could go to the ball park.
My father was a gifted raconteur with an unlimited supply of anecdotes.
He felt sorry for the ragamuffin who was begging for food and gave him money to buy a meal.
You may rail at him all you want; you will never change him.
How can I go to the ball? asked Cinderella. "I have no raiment fit to wear."
He wore his hat at a rakish and jaunty angle.
Listening to the teacher ramble, Judy wondered whether he'd ever get to his point.
We must examine all the ramifications of this problem.
When the plant begins to ramify, it is advisable to nip off most of the new branches.
The rampant weeds in the garden killed all the flowers that had been planted in the spring.
From the ramparts we watched as the fighting continued.
The house was built with ramps instead of stairs in order to enable the man in the wheelchair to move easily from room to room and floor to floor.
The boys propped up the ramshackle clubhouse with a couple of boards.
A rancid odor filled the ship's galley and nauseated the crew.
Let us forget out rancor and cooperate in this new endeavor.
Although the sponsor of the raffle claimed all winners were chosen at random, people had their suspicions when the grand prize went to the sponsor's brother-in-law.
The memory of having been jilted rankled him for years.
As we heard him rant on the platform, we could not understand his strange popularity with many people.
Hawks and other rapacious birds prey on variety of small animals.
In team teaching, it is important that all teachers in the group have good rapport with one another.
The mountain climbers had difficulty breathing in the rarefied atmosphere.
The sergeant's raspy voice grated on the recruits' ears.
Before the treaty could go into effect, it had to be ratified by the president.
While Watson was a man of average intelligence, Holmes was a genius, whose gift for ratiocination made him a superb detective.
All attempts at rationalization at this time are doomed to failure; tempers and emotions run too high for intelligent thought to prevail.
Do not try to rationalize your behavior by blaming your companions.
His raucous laughter irritated me and grated on my ears.
The marauding army ravaged the countryside.
A sigle thread pulled loose, and the entire scarf started to ravel.
The revenous dog upset several garbage pails in its search for food.
Though critic John Simon seldom has a good word to say about contemporary plays, his review of All in the Timing was a total rave.
Steeper than a gully, less precipitous than a canyon, a ravine is, like them, the product of years of erosion.
The owners intend to raze the hotel and erect an office building on the site.
His program was reactionary since it sought to abolish many of the social reforms instituted by the previous administration.
The realm of possibilities for the new invention was endless.
Death, the Grim Reaper, cuts down men and women, just as a farmer cuts down the ripened grain.
We offer a rebate of ten percent to those who pay cash.
She rebuffed his invitation so smoothly that he did not realize he had been snubbed.
A coven of witches beside a tree is a possible rebus for the town Coventry.
The defense lawyer confidently listened to the prosecutor sum up his case, sure that she could answer his arguments in her rebuttal.
Donkeys are reputed to be the most recalcitrant of animals.
Unless you recant your confession, you will be punished severely.
Let us recapitulate what has been said thus far before going ahead.
Adventure-loving Huck Finn proved a receptive audience for Tom's tales of buried treasure and piracy.
The slow recession of the flood waters created problems for the crews working to restore power to the area.
Prison reformers in the United States are disturbed by the high rate of recidivism; the number of persons serving second and third terms indicates the failure of the prisons to rehabilitate the inmates.
Although he had been the recipient of many favors, he was not grateful to his benefactor.
The two nations signed a reciprocal trade agreement.
If they attack us, we shall be compelled to reciprocate and bomb their territory.
The recluse lived in a hut in the forest.
Every time we try to reconcile our checkbook with the bank statement, we quarrel. However, despite these monthly lovers' quarrels, we always manage to reconcile.
He read many recondite books in order to obtain the material for the scholarly thesis.
If you encounter any enemy soldiers during your reconnaissance, capture them for questioning.
About to recount the latest adventure of Sherlock Holmes, Watson lost track of exactly how many cases Holmes had solved and refused to begin his tale until he'd recounted them one by one.
The boy's only recourse was to appeal to his father for aid.
Loud and angry recriminations were her answer to his accusations.
I want to rectify my error before it is too late.
He was renowned for his rectitude and integrity.
The command "AT EASE" does not permit you to take a recumbent position.
The doctors were worried because the patient did not recuperate as rapidly as they had expected.
These recurrent attacks disturbed us and we consulted a physician.
Even though it is February, the air is redolent of spring.
During the Cold War period, neighboring countries tried not to offend the Russians because they could be redoubtable foes.
Do you mean to tell me that I can get no redress for my injuries?
Your composition is redundant; you can easily reduce its length.
The room reeked with stale tobacco smoke.
In this huge refectory, we can feed the entire student body at one sitting.
When you look at a stick inserted in water, it looks bent because of the refraction of the light by the water.
The refractory horse was eliminated from the race when he refused to obey the jockey.
Whenever he heard a song with a lively chorus, Sol could never refrain from joining in on the refrain.
The flood left a deposit of mud on everything; it was necessary to refurbish our belongings.
The defense called several respectable witnesses who were able to refute the false testimony of the prosecution's only witness.
John regaled us with tales of his adventures in Africa.
Prince Albert had a regal manner.
Many boating enthusiasts followed the regatta in their own yachts.
Modern penologists strive for the regeneration of the prisoners.
The beheading of Mary Queen of Scots was an act of regicide.
I doubt whether the results warrant our living under such a strict regimen.
When a Frenchman mentions the Old Regime, he refers to the government existing before the revolution.
We must rehabilitate those whom we send to prison.
Let me know what you have spent and I will reimburse you.
He reiterated the warning to make sure everyone understood it.
When someone has been rude to me, I find it particularly satisfying to come up with a quick rejoinder.
The charlatan claimed that his elixir would rejuvenate the aged and weary.
The economy relapsed into a depression from the peak.
If we relegate these experts to minor posts because of their political persuasions, we shall lose their valuable services.
When her stern father would not relent and allow her to marry Robert Browning, Elizabeth Barrett eloped with her suitor.
 Teri was impressed by how relevant Virginia Woolf's remarks were to her as a woman writer; it was as if Woolf had been writing with Teri's situation in mind.
Egypt's Department of Antiquities prohibits tourists from taking mummies and other ancient relics out of the country.
I will relinquish my claims to this property if you promise to retain my employees.
I relish a good joke as much as anyone else.
Let us be grateful that the damage is remediable.
Her reminiscences of her experiences are so fascinating that she ought to write a book.
Though Senator Tsongas had been treated for cancer, his symptoms were in remission, and he was considered fit to handle the strains of a Presidential race
He was accused of being remiss in his duty when the prisoner escaped.
I suggest that you wait until the store places the remnants of these goods on sale.
The authorities were deaf to the pastor's remonstrances about the lack of police protection in the area.
The murderer felt no remorse for his crime.
I find my new work so renumerative that I may not return to my previous employment.
He rendered aid to the needy and indigent.
The two fleets met at the rendezvous at the appointed time.
The audience cheered enthusiastically as she completed her rendition of the aria.
In his grief, he tried to rend his garments.
Because he had abandoned his post and joined forces with the Indians, his fellow officers considered the hero of Dances with Wolves a renegade.
He reneged on paying off his debt.
Even though she knew she would be burned at the stake as a witch, Joan of Arc refused to renounce her belief that her voices came from God.
They claim that they can renovate worn shoes so that they look like new ones.
For many years an unheralded researcher, Barbara McClintock gained international renown when she won the Nobel Prize in Physiology and Medicine.
The conflict over abortion threatens to split our nation, creating a rent in the social fabric that will be difficult to mend.
Fortunately, the damages we suffered in the accident were reparable and our car looks brand new.
At the peace conference, the defeated country promised to pay reparations to the victors.
He was famous for his witty repartee and his sarcasm.
What would the effect on our society be if we decriminalized drug use by repealing the laws against  the possession and sale of narcotics?
Mosquitoes find the odor so repellent that they leave any spot where this liquid has been sprayed.
I am afraid that this event will have serious repercussions.
The opera company decided to include Madame Butterfly in its repertoire for the following season.
There is no sense repining over the work you have left undone.
Before she could take another backpacking trip, Carla had to replenish her stock of freeze-dried foods.
The book is replete with humorous situations.
To the chagrin of the scientists, they were unable to replicate the results of their controversial experiment.
Are you going to hang this replica of the Declaration of Independence in the classroom or in the auditorium?
Libraries are repositories of the world's best thoughts.
Your vicious conduct in this situation is reprehensible.
Anne's parents tried to curb her impetuosity without repressing her boundless high spirits.
During the twenty-four-hour reprieve, the lawyers sought to make the stay of execution permanent.
I am afraid that my parents will reprimand me when I show them my report card.
I am confident that we are ready for any reprisals the enemy may undertake.
At Waterloo, it was not the effect of any one skirmish that exhausted Colonel Audly; rather it was the cumulative effect of the constant reprises that left him spent.
I want my work to be above reproach and without error
I cannot understand why he has so many admirers if he is the reprobate you say he is.
The students showed their reprobation of his act by refusing to talk with him.
The principal reproved the students when they became unruly in the auditorium.
He announced that he would repudiate all debts incurred by his wife.
She looked at the snake with repugnance.
The repulsion of the enemy forces was not accomplished bloodlessly; many of the defenders were wounded in driving the enemy back.
If you want to buy antiques, look for a reputable dealer; far too many dealers today pass off fakes as genuine antiques.
He is the reputed father of the child.
They played Mozart's Requiem at the funeral.
Many colleges state that a student must offer three years of a language as a requisite for admission.
The wretch requited his benefactors by betraying them.
Because of public resentment, the king had to rescind his order.
Although some girls were attracted by Mark's reserve, Judy was put off by it, for she felt his aloofness indicated a lack of openness.
In his will, he requested that after payment of debts, taxes, and funeral expenses, the residue be given to his wife.
If Bob Cratchit had not accepted Scrooge's bullying with timid resignation, he might have gotten up the nerve to hand in his resignation.
Highly resilient, steel makes excellent bedsprings.
Nothing could shake his resolution to succeed despite all difficulties.
Homes resolved to travel to Bohemia to resolve the dispute between Irene Adler and the King.
Nothing could shake his resolve that his children would get the best education that money could buy.
The deep, resonant voice of the actor James Earl Jones makes him particulary effective when he appears on stage.
The doctor found that the patient's years of smoking had adversely affected both his lung capacity and his rate of respiration.
The judge granted the condemned man a respite to enable his attorneys to file an appeal.
The toreador wore a resplendent costume called a suit of lights.
The audience cheered and applauded, delighting the performers by its responsiveness.
He offered to make restitution for the window broken by his son.
Waiting impatiently in the line to see Santa Claus, even the best-behaved children grow restive and start to
She dreamt of living an independent life, free of all restraints.
During the summer break, Don had not realized how much he missed university life: at the resumption of classes, however, he felt marked excitement and pleasure.
The resurgent nation surprised everyone by its quick recovery after total defeat.
The lifeguard tried to resuscitate the drowned child by applying artificial respiration.
Fighting to retain his seat in Congress, Senator Foghorn retained a new manager to head his reelection campaign.
Fear that we will retaliate immediately deters our foe from attacking us.
The pupil did not need to spend much time in study as he had a retentive mind.
Hughes preferred reticent employees to loquacious ones, noting that the formers' dislike of idle chatter might ensure their discretion about his affairs.
The queen's retinue followed her down the aisle.
Given Susan't retiring personality, no one expected her to take up public speaking; surprisingly enough, she became a star of the school debate team.
Even when it was advisable for her to keep her mouth shut, she was always ready with a retort.
He dropped his libel suit after the newspaper published a retraction of its statement.
If they were to be able to send their children to college, they would have to retrench.
The evangelist maintained that an angry deity would exact retribution from the sinners.
The dog was intelligent and quickly learned to retrieve the game killed by the hunter.
Because the new pension law was retroactive to the first of the year, even though Martha had retired in February she was eligible for the pension.
Instead of advancing, our civilization seems to have retrograded in ethics and culture.
It is only when we become retrospective that we can appreciate the tremendous advances made during this century.
New Year's Eve is a night of revelry.
The entire valley reverberated with the sound of the church bells.
His reverent attitude was appropriate in a house of worship.
He was awakened from his reverie by the teacher's question.
 He was avoided by all who feared that he would revile and abuse them if they displeased him.
Repeat offenders who continue to drive under the influence of alcohol face having their driver's licenses permanently revoked.
Many people in this country who admired dictatorships underwent a revulsion when they realized what Hitler and Mussolini were trying to do.
She greatly enjoyed her Hawaiian vacation and rhapsodized about it for weeks.
All writers, by necessity, must be skilled in rhetoric.
He sang a ribald song that offended many of the more prudish listeners.
Senator Foghorn said he would support Senator Filibuster's tax reform bill only if Filibuster agreed to add an antipollution rider to the bill.
In the face of the many rumors of scandal, which are rife at the moment, it is best to remain silent.
The plane was lost in the stormy sky until the pilot saw the city through a rift in the clouds.
By living with a man to whom she was not married, George Eliot broke Victorian society's most rigid rule of respectable behavior.
Many settlers could not stand the rigors of the New England winters.
The ward boss was able to rig the election by bribing people to stuff the ballot boxes with ballots marked in his candidate's favor.
Red had a hair-trigger temper: he was an easy man to rile.
The reviewer described Byatt's novel Possession as a riveting tale: absorbed in the story, he had finished it in a single evening.
As the rains continued, the trickle of water running down the hillside grew into a rivulet that threatened to wash away a portion of the slope.
The candidate for the football team had a robust physique.
The rococo style in furniture and architecture, marked by scrollwork and excessive decoration, flourished during the middle of the eighteenth century.
Be careful when you pour not to roil the wine; if you stir up the sediment you'll destroy the flavor.
I am afraid you will have to alter your roseate views in the light of the distressing news that has just arrived.
They print the roster of players in the season's program.
The crowd murmured angrily and indicated that they did not care to listen to the speaker who was approaching the rostrum.
He recited the passage by rote and gave no indication he understood what he was saying.
His body lay in state in the rotunda of the Capitol.
Washington Irving emphasized the rotundity of the governor by describing his height and circumference.
And now, let's have a rousing welcome for TV's own Roseanne Arnold, who'll lead us in a rousing rendition of 'The Star-Spangled Banner.'
The reinforcements were able to rout the enemy
Ten years after World War II, some of the rubble left by enemy bombings could still be seen.
In ordaining the new priests, the bishop carefully observed all the rubrics for the ordination service.
His ruddy features indicated that he had spent much time in the open.
His dancing was limited to a few rudimentary steps.
The artist has captured the sadness of childhood in his portrait of the boy with the rueful countenance.
The ruffians threw stones at the police.
We cannot afford to wait while you ruminate upon these plans.
When we rummaged through the trunks in the attic, we found many souvenirs of our childhood days.
Tolkien's use of Old English words and inscriptions in the runic alphabet give The Lord of the Rings its atmosphere of antiquity.
You will not be able to fool your friends with such an obvious ruse.
I like city life so much that I can never understand how people can rusticate in the suburbs.
The backwoodsman looked out place in his rustic attire.
The escaped convict was a dangerous and ruthless murderer.
Members of the Resistance acted as saboteurs, blowing up train lines to prevent supplies from reaching the Nazi army.
She tried to ingratiate herself, speaking sweetly and smiling a saccharine smile.
His stealing of the altar cloth was a very sacrilegious act.
The brash insurance salesman invaded the sacrosanct privacy of the office of the president of the company.
If we are to improve conditions in this prison, we must first get rid of the sadistic warden.
He is much too sagacious to be fooled by a trick like that.
This is a saga of the sea and the men who risk their lives on it.
Hearing tales of a mysterious Master of All Knowledge who lived in the hills of Tibet, Sandy was possessed with a burning desire to consult the legendary sage.
Chaucer's monk is not pious but salacious, a teller of lewd tales and ribald jests.
One of the salient features of that newspaper is its excellent editorial page.
The slightly saline taste of this mineral water is pleasant.
We were disturbed by his sallow complexion, which was due to jaundice.
Many people with hay fever move to more salubrious sections of the country during the months of August and September.
The punishment had a salutary effect on the boy, as he became a model student.
All attempts to salvage the wrecked ship failed.
You do not have to be so sanctimonious to prove that you are devout.
Nothing will convince me to sanction the engagement of my daughter to such a worthless young man.
The battle of lwo Jina was unexpectedly sanguinary with many casualties.
Let us not be too sanguine about the outcome; something could go wrong.
The element kryptonite had an unhealthy effect on Superman: it sapped his strength.
His feelings were hurt by the sarcasm of his supposed friends.
The sardonic humor of nightclub comedians who satirize or ridicule patrons in the audience strikes some people as amusing and others as rude.
He was as famous for the sartorial splendor of his attire as he was for his acting.
During the first few years of the Space Age, hundreds of satellites were launched by Russia and the United States.
Its hunger sated, the lion dozed.
The guests, having eaten until they were satiated, now listened inattentively to the speakers.
Gulliver's Travels, which is regarded by many as a tale for children, is actually a bitter satire attacking human folly.
The humor of cartoonists Gary Trudeau often is satirical; though the comments of the Doonesbury characters, Trudeau ridicules political corruption and folly.
Their clothes were saturated by the rain.
Do not be misled by his saturnine countenance; he is not as gloomy as he looks.
He was like a satyr in his lustful conduct.
As we sauntered through the park, we stopped frequently to admire the spring flowers.
Our faculty includes many worldfamous savants.
Julia Child's recipes enable amateur chefs to create savory delicacies for their guests.
Relishing his triumph, Costner especially savored the chagrin of the critics who had predicted his failure.
The drill master told the recruit to wipe the blood from his sword before slipping it back into the scabbard.
Refusing Dave's offer to lend him a shirt, Phil replied, "No, thanks: I've got scads of clothes."
Before painting the house, the workers put up a scaffold to allow them to work on the second story.
To locate a book on the top shelf of the stacks, Lee had to scale an exceptionally rickety ladder.
Thinking his helping of food was scanty, Oliver Twist asked for more.
After the Challenger disaster, NASA searched for scapegoats on whom they could cast the blame.
If you need car parts that the dealers no longer stock, try scavenging for odd bits and pieces at the auto wreckers' yards.
Scaramouche startled the other actors in the commedia troupe when he suddenly departed from their customary scenario and began to improvise.
In working out the solution to an analytical logic question, you may find it helpful to construct a simple schematic diagram illustrating the relationships between the items of information given in the question.
Let us not widen the schism by further bickering.
I enjoy her dinner parties because the food is excellent and the conversation scintillates.
You have not produced a scintilla of evidence to support your argument.
He scoffed at dentists until he had his first toothache.
Heather tried to scotch the rumor that she had stolen her best friend's fiance.
 They feared the plague and regarded it as a deadly scourge.
Fearing that her husband had become involved in an affair, she did not scruple to read his diary.
I can recommend him for a position of responsibility for I have found him a very scrupulous young man.
Searching for flaws, the sergeant scrutinized every detail of the private's uniform.
The twins briefly scuffled, wrestling to see which of them would get the toy. When their big brother yelled,Let go of my Gameboy! they scuffled off down the hall.
Your scurrilous remarks are especially offensive because they are untrue.
The White Rabbit had to scurry to get to his appointment on time.
Peter Pan sneered at Captain Hook and his scurvy crew.
The sailors decided to scuttle their vessel rather than surrender it to the enemy.
In the Godfather, Michael Corleone is unwilling to expose his wife and children to the seamy side of his life as the son of a Mafia don.
Accidentally brushing against the hot grill, she seared her hand badly.
Though pleased with her new batch of rookies, the basketball coach wished she had a few more seasoned players on the team.
The secession of the Southern states provided Lincoln with his first major problem after his inauguration.
One moment she loved crowds; the next, she sought seclusion.
The pack rat secretes odds and ends in its nest; the pancreas secretes insulin in the islets of Langerhans.
As university chaplain, she sought to address universal religious issues and not limit herself to mere sectarian concerns.
The church leaders decided not interfere in secular matters.
The parents were worried because they felt their son was too quiet and sedate.
It is dangerous to drive after taking the sedative; it brings drowsiness.
Because he had a sedentary occupation, he decided to visit a gymnasium weekly.
His words, though not treasonous in themselves, were calculated to arouse thoughts of sedition.
The young woman was so sedulous that she received a commendation for her hard work.
I would rather stay in dormitory lodgings in a decent youth hostel than have a room of my own in a seedy downtown hotel.
Lady Bracknell did not think it was seemly for Ernest to lack a proper family; no baby abandoned on a doorstep could grow up to marry her daughter.
During the rainstorm, water seeped through the crack in the basement wall and damaged the floor boards.
The nation was seething with discontent as the nobleman continued their arrogant ways.
When the shad run during the spring, you may see fishermen with seines along the banks of our coastal rivers.
The Richter scale is a measurement of seismic disturbances.
Although this book has a semblance of wisdom and scholarship, a careful examination will reveal many errors and omissions.
Although Freud has generally been regarded as a seminal thinker who shaped the course of psychology, his psychoanalytic methods have come under attack recently.
Sure of his priestly vocation, Terrence planned to pursue his theological training at the local Roman Catholic seminary.
Most of the decisions are being made by the junior members of the company because of the senility of the president.
I cannot understand what caused him to drop his sensual way of life and become so ascetic.
He was stimulated by the sights, sounds and smells about him; he was enjoying his sensuous experience.
After reading so many redundant speeches, I find his sententious style particulary pleasing.
Though camped in enemy territory, Bledsoe ignored the elementary precaution of posting sentinels around the encampment.
The hospital was in such a filthy state that we were afraid that many of the patients would suffer from septic poisoning.
Annabel Lee was buried in a sepulcher by the sea.
Although he had hoped for a long time to sequester himself in a small community, he never was able to drop his busy round of activities in the city.
Many scientific discoveries are a matter of serendipity: Newton was not sitting there thinking about gravity when the apple dropped on his head.
The serenity of the sleepy town was shattered by a tremendous explosion.
After the unseasonably dry winter the Berkeley hills looked dusty and sere.
The car swerved at every curve in the serpentine road.
The beech tree is one of many plants that have serrated leaves.
Constantly fawning on his employer, humble Uriah Heap was a servile creature.
Born a slave, Douglass resented his wife of servitude and plotted to escape to the North.
The severance of church and state is a basic principle of our government.
The newspapers disapproved of the severity of the sentence.
Given a clear night, with the aid of his sextant and compass, he could keep the ship safely on course.
The criminal's ankles were shackled to prevent his escape.
By the time the police arrived, the room was a shambles.
He shammed sickness to get out of going to school.
The archaeologist assigned several students the task of reassembling earthenware vessels from the shards he had brought back from the expedition.
The lawyer picked up a sheaf of papers as he rose to question the witness.
As soon as he recognized the approaching men, he sheathed his dagger and hailed them as friends.
I prefer raspberry sherbet to ice cream since it is less fattening.
The moonlight shimmered on the water as the moon broke through the clouds for a moment.
Brian has a strong sense of duty; he would never shirk any responsibility.
You will never get the public to buy such shoddy material.
A shrewd investor, he took clever advantage of the fluctuations of the stock market.
No one wanted to marry Shakespeare's Kate because she was a shrew.
If the switchman failed to shunt the Silver Streak onto a side track, the train would plow right into Union
Cherishing his solitude, the recluse shunned the company of other human beings.
On L.A. Law, respectable attorney Brackman was horrified to learn that his newly discovered half brother was a cheap shyster.
We may not enjoy being siblings, but we cannot forget that we still belong to the same family.
Until their destruction by fire in 83 B.C., the sibylline books were often consulted by the Romans.
Although hampered by optical and mechanical flaws, the orbiting Hubble space telescope has relayed extraordinary images of distant sidereal bodies.
The harbor channel must be dredged annually to remove the silt.
Lemurs are nocturnal mammals and have many simian characteristics, although they are less intelligent than monkeys.
My love is like a red, red rose is a simile.
Complimented on her appearance, Stella self-consciously simpered.
Though Jack's solution dealt adequately with one aspect of the problem, it was simplistic in failing to consider various complicating factors that might arise.
He simulated insanity in order to avoid punishment for his crime.
My job is no sinecure; I work long hours and have much responsibility.
The steak was too sinewy to chew
Though the young man tried to understand Father William's singular behavior, he still found it odd that the old man incessantly stood on his head.
We must defeat the sinister forces that seek our downfall.
The snake moved in a sinuous manner.
In this matter, I am a skeptic; I want proof.
Tom dreamed of owning an ocean-going yacht but had to settle for a skiff he could sail in the bay.
They were forced to skimp on necessities in order to make their limited supplies last the winter.
The old skinflint refused to give her a raise.
Custer's troops expected they might run into a skirmish or two on maneuvers; they did not expect to face a major battle.
She is as skittish as a kitten playing with a piece of string.
The investigation into municipal corruption turned up new instances of skulduggery daily.
He skulked through the less fashionable sections of the city in order to avoid meeting any of his former friends.
As they passed the finish line, the runners slackened their pace.
The blast furnace had a special opening at the bottom to allow the workers to remove the worthless slag.
When we reached the oasis, we were able to slake our thirst.
Unless you can prove your allegations, your remarks constitute slander.
From the number of typos and misspellings I've found on it, it's clear that Mario proofread the report in a remarkably slapdash fashion.
This is a sleazy fabric; it will not wear well.
Unnoticed by the critics at its publication, the eventual Pulitzer Prize winner was a classic sleeper.
The magician amazed the audience with his sleight of hand.
Hypersensitive and ready to take offense at any discourtesy, Bertha was always on the lookout for real or imaginary slights.
During the recent ice storm, many people slithered down this hill as they walked to the station.
Such sloth in a young person is deplorable; go to work!
Note how well the somewhat greenish coat of the sloth enables it to blend in with its arboreal surroundings.
Each spring, the snake sloughs off its skin.
Such slovenly work habits will never produce good products.
You are a sluggard, a drone, a parasite, the angry father shouted at his lazy son.
After two nights without sleep, she felt sluggish and incapable of exertion.
In times of drought, this sluice enables farmers to obtain water for irrigation.
Polls revealed that the front-runner's standing had been damaged by the slurs and innuendoes circulated by his opponent's staff.
I don't know whether it is better to be ignorant of a subject or to have a mere smattering of information about it.
Wipe that smirk off your face!
The rags smoldered for hours before they burst into flame.
The boy could not suppress a snicker when the teacher sat on the tack.
Don't you come sniveling to me complaining about your big brother.
Neither drunkards nor comics are noted for sobriety.
He set his sodden overcoat near the radiator to dry.
After his sojourn in Florida, he began to long for the colder climate of his native New England home.
I hope you will find solace in the thought that all of us share your loss.
The plumber fixed the leak in the pipes by soldering a couple of joints from which water had been oozing.
I must give this paper a failing mark because it contains many solecisms.
The minister was concerned that nothing should disturb the solemnity of the marriage service.
The employer was very solicitous about the health of her employees as replacements were difficult to get.
Knowing she needed to have a solid majority for the budget to pass, the mayor telephoned all the members of the city council to solicit their votes.
The soliloquy is a device used by the dramatist to reveal a character's innermost thoughts and emotions.
The winter solstice usually occurs on December 21.
By dint of very frugal living, he was finally able to become solvent and avoid bankruptcy proceedings.
Why do you ignore the spiritual aspects and emphasize only the corporeal and the somatic ones?
From the doctor's grim expression, I could tell he had somber news.
The most famous somnambulist in literature is Lady Macbeth; her monologue in the sleepwalking scene is one of the highlights of Shakespeare's play.
The heavy meal and the overheated room made us all somnolent and indifferent to the speaker.
His sonorous voice resounded through the hall.
Sophistication is an acquired characteristic, found more frequently among city dwellers than among residents of rural areas.
Instead of advancing valid arguments, he tried to overwhelm his audience with a flood of sophistries.
You are using all the devices of a sophist in trying to prove your case; your argument is specious.
Your sophomoric remarks are a sign of your youth and indicate that you have not given much thought to the problem.
I do not need a sedative when I listen to one of his soporific speeches.
The social worker was angered by the sordid housing provided for the homeless.
The thousands of spangles on her dress sparkled in the glare of the stage lights.
Looking over the bare, unheated room with its hard cot, he wondered what he was doing in such spartan quarters. Only his spartan sense of duty kept him at his post.
The spasmodic coughing in the auditorium annoyed the performers.
I am worried about the possibility of a spate if the rains do not diminish soon.
It is difficult to visualize the spatial extent of our universe.
The manufacturers of this frying pan recommended the use of a rubber spatula to avoid scratching the specially treated surface.
What had started out as a mere spat escalated into a full-blown argument.
Fish ladders had to be built in the dams to assist the salmon returning to spawn in their native streams.
Let us not be misled by such specious arguments.
We were frightened by the spectral glow that filled the room.
The visible portion of the spectrum includes red at one end and violet at the other.
Easy access to credit encourages people to turn into spendthrifts who shop till they drop.
The Mona Lisa's sphinx-like expression has puzzled art lovers for centuries.
Before you splice two strips of tape together, be sure to line them up evenly.
What I liked best about Dale's parties was their spontaneity: a couple of friends would drop by, someone would pull out a fiddle or guitar, and before you knew it the party would be in full swing.
When the radio announcer introduced the President as Hoobert Herver, he was guilty of spoonerism.
Although there are still sporadic outbursts of shooting in the streets, the rebellion is essentially over.
Such a sportive attitude is surprising in a person as serious as you usually are.
Every button buttoned, tie firmly in place, young Alex Keaton looked spruce and tidy for his job interview at the bank.
She was eighty years old, yet still spry and alert.
The hero of Jonathan Gash's mystery novels is an antique dealer who gives the reader advice on how to tell spurious antiques from the real things.
The heroine spurned the villain's advances.
Children invariably get involved in petty squabbles; wise parents know when to interfere and when to let the children work things out on their own.
It is easy to see how crime can breed in such a squalid neighborhood.
The prodigal son squandered the family estate.
Tolkien's hobbits are somewhat squat, sturdy little creatures, fond of good ale, good music, and good food.
His staccato speech reminded one of the sound of a machine gun.
The stagnant water was a breeding ground for disease
Her conduct during the funeral ceremony was staid and solemn.
Negotiations between the union and the employers have reached a stalemate; neither side is willing to budge from previously stated positions.
His consistent support of the party has proved that he is a stalwart and loyal member.
I doubt that she has the stamina to run the full distance of the marathon race.
It is imperative that we stanch the gushing wound before we attend to the other injuries.
Do you know the last stanza of "The Star-Spangled Banner"?
Nothing had changed at home; things were static there
We have many statutes in our law books which should be repealed.
The judicial courts review and try statutory crimes.
Penelope was steadfast in her affections, faithfully waiting for Ulysses to return from his wanderings.
Fearing detection by the sentries on duty, the scout inched his way toward the enemy camp with great stealth.
Be sure to steep the fabric in the dye bath for the full time prescribed.
He was the stellar attraction of the entire performance.
Milton's problems in school stemmed from his poor study habits.
The paramedic used a tourniquet to stem the bleeding from the slashed artery.
The town crier had stentorian voice.
The Internal Revenue Service agent was a stickler for accuracy; no approximations or rough estimates would satisfy him.
Halfway through the boring lecture, Laura gave up trying to stifle her yawns.
I do not attach any stigma to the fact that you were accused of this crime; the fact that you were acquitted clears you completely.
His stilted rhetoric did not impress the college audience; they were immune to bombastic utterances.
Spare no expense, the bride's father said, refusing to stint on the wedding arrangements.
He performed his daily stint cheerfully and willingly.
There is a nominal stipend for this position.
Seurat carefully stippled dabs of pure color on the canvas, juxtaposing dots of blue and yellow that the viewer's eye would interpret as green.
Before agreeing to reduce American military forces in Europe, the president stipulated that NATO teams be allowed to inspect Soviet bases.
For a young person, Winston seems remarkably stodgy: you'd expect someone of his age to have a little more life.
The doctor called her patient a stoic because he had borne the pain of the examination without whimpering.
As a Scout, Marisa learned how to light a fire, how to stoke it if it started to die down, and how to extinguish it completely.
The earthquake shattered his usual stolidity; trembling, he crouched on the no longer stable ground.
As the economic gap between the rich and the poor increased, Roman society grew increasingly stratified.
Unless we alleviate conditions in the lowest stratum of our society, we may expect grumbling and revolt.
My chief objection to the book is that the characters are stereotyped; they come across as ethnic caricatures, not as real people with individual quirks, fears, and dreams.
Preceding the bride to the altar, the flower girl will strew rose petals along the aisle.
The glacier left many striated rocks.
His strictures on the author's style are prejudiced and unwarranted.
She scolded him in a strident voice
I think these regulations are too stringent.
His strut as he marched about the parade ground revealed him for what he was: a pompous buffoon.
The engineer calculated that the strut supporting the rafter needed to be reinforced.
Given Jill's previous slights, Jack felt that the omission of his name from the guest list was a studied insult.
His long hours in the blacking factory left young Dickens numb and incurious, as if the menial labor had stultified his mind.
Disapproving of drugs in general, Laura refused to take sleeping pills or any other medicine that might stupefy her.
In his stupor, the addict was unaware of the events taking place around him.
The stygian room reminded him of an empty space.
The detective was stymied by the contradictory evidence in the robbery investigation.
He is particulary good in roles that require suavity and sophistication.
The captain treated his subalterns as though they were children rather than commissioned officers.
Your analysis is highly subjective; you have permitted your emotions and your opinions to color your thinking.
It is not our aim to subjugate our foe; we are interested only in establishing peaceful relations.
We must strive to sublimate these desires and emotions into worthwhile activities.
Mother Teresa has been honored for her sublime deeds.
We may not be aware of the subliminal influences that affect our thinking.
Crushed by his authoritarian father, Will had no defiance left in him; he was totally submissive in the face of authority.
In the Godfather, the mobsters used bribery and threats to suborn the witnesses against Don Michael Corleone.
The prosecutor's office was ready to serve a subpoena on the reluctant witness.
In subsequent lessons, we shall take up more difficult problems.
He was proud and dignified; he refused to be subservient to anyone.
The doctor assured us that the fever would eventually subside.
This information may be used as subsidiary evidence but is not sufficient by itself to prove your argument.
Without this subsidy, American ship operators would not be able to compete in world markets.
In those days of inflated prices, my salary provided mere subsistence.
I intend to substantiate my statement by producing witnesses.
Although the delegates were aware of the importance of the problem, they could not agree on the substantive issues.
Does the general theory of relativity contradict Newtonian physics, or is Newton's law of gravity subsumed into Einstein's larger scheme?
As soon as we realized that you had won our support by a subterfuge we withdrew our endorsement of your candidacy.
The subtlety of his remarks was unnoticed by most of his audience.
At first glance, the notion that Styrofoam cups may actually be more ecologically sound than paper cups strikes most environmentalists as subversive.
His remarks are always succinct and pointed.
We shall be ever grateful for the succor our country gave us when we were in need.
To some people, Florida citrus fruits are more succulent than those from California.
I succumb to temptation whenever it comes my way.
In recognition of her efforts to win the vote for women, Congress authorized coining a silver dollar honoring the suffragist Susan B. Anthony.
A blush suffused her cheeks when we teased her about her love affair.
He felt that it was beneath his dignity to sully his hands in such menial labor.
He could not adjust himself to the sultry climate of the tropics.
In his summation, the lawyer emphasized the testimony given by the two witnesses.
I cannot recall when I have had such a sumptuous Thanksgiving feast.
Northern and southern Ireland are politically and religiously sundered.
My suspicions were aroused when I read sundry items in the newspapers about your behavior.
The superannuated man was indignant because he felt that he could still perform a good day's work.
I prefer Jill's modesty to Jack's supercilious and arrogant attitude.
We have more than enough witnesses to corroborate your statement; to present any more would be
Since your report gave only a superficial analysis of the problem, I cannot give you more than a passing grade.
Please try not to include so many superfluous details in your report; just give me the bare facts.
Your attempt to superimpose another agency in this field will merely increase the bureaucratic nature of our government.
His first appearance on the stage was as a supernumerary in a Shakespearean tragedy.
This regulation will supersede all previous rules.
The defeated pugilist lay supine on the canvas.
Corazon Aquino supplanted Ferdinand Marcos as president of the Philippines.
The angler found a supple limb and used it as a fishing rod.
He could not resist the dog's suppliant whimpering, and he gave it some food.
We supplicate Your Majesty to grant him amnesty.
I based my decision to confide in him on the supposition that he would be discreet.
I find no similarity between your supposititious illustration and the problem we are facing.
Every Thanksgiving we are surfeited with an overabundance of holiday treats.
Because of his surly attitude, many people avoided his company.
I surmise that he will be late for this meeting.
He had to surmount many obstacles in order to succeed.
Her SAT scores surpassed out expectations.
News of their surreptitious meeting gradually leaked out.
For a fatherless child, a male teacher may become a father surrogate.
The FBI kept the house under constant surveillance in the hope of capturing all the criminals at one time.
He was a very susceptible young man, and so his parents worried that he might fall into bad company.
He sustained such a severe injury that the doctors feared he would be unable to work to sustain his growing family.
In the tropics, the natives find sustenance easy to obtain because of all the fruit trees.
We will remove the sutures as soon as the wound heals.
Despite the stereotype, not all Italians are swarthy; many are fair and blond.
When I visited him in the hospital, I found him swathed in bandages.
I am going to buy an air conditioning unit for my apartment as I do not intend to swelter through another hot and humid summer.
The car swerved wildly as the driver struggled to regain control of the wheel.
Singing, "Yo, ho, ho, and a bottle of rum," Long John Silver and his fellow pirates swilled their grog.
She was gullible and trusting, an easy victim for the first swindler who came along.
Rich people are not always sybarites; some of them have little taste for a life of luxury.
The king enjoyed the servile compliments and attentions of the sycophants in his retinue.
or specious argument There must be a fallacy in this syllogism; I cannot accept its conclusion.
His paintings of nymphs in sylvan backgrounds were criticized as oversentimental.
Both the crocodile bird and the crocodile derive benefit from their symbiosis; pecking away at food particles embedded in the crocodile's teeth, the bird derives nourishment; the crocodile, meanwhile, derives proper dental hygiene.
The addition of a second tower will give this edifice the symmetry that it now lacks.
We have many examples of scientists in different parts of the world who have made synchronous discoveries.
The professor turned to the latest issue of Dissertation Abstracts for a synoptic account of what was new in the field.
Now that we have succeeded in isolating this drug, our next problem is to plan its synthesis in the laboratory.
During the twentieth century, many synthetic products have replaced the natural products.
New Englanders are reputedly taciturn people.
We have a tacit agreement based on only a handshake.
His callused hands had lost their tactile sensitivity.
Health authorities are always trying to prevent the sale and use of tainted food.
She wore the talisman to ward off evil.
The falconer wore a leather gauntlet to avoid being clawed by the hawk's talons.
Despite Clark's attempts to distract her with tangential remarks, Lois kept on coming back to her main question: why couldn't he come out to dinner with Superman and her?
Although Tom did not own a house, he had several tangible assets--a car, a television, a PC--that he could sell if he needed cash.
Using a solution of tanbark, the tanner treated the cowhide, transforming it into supple leather.
Tom loved to tantalize his younger brother with candy; he knew the boy was forbidden to have it.
Your ignoring their pathetic condition is tantamount to the murder.
The child learned that he could have almost anything if he went into tantrums.
He lit the taper on the windowsill.
We need an antitoxin to counteract the bite of the tarantula.
We can't tarry if we want to get to the airport on time.
In the sentence "It was visible to the eye," the phrase "to the eye" is tautological.
The captain maintained that he ran a taut ship.
He won a few tawdry trinkets in Coney Island.
Dental patterns often enable the taxonomist to distinguish members of one rodent species from those of another.
We hope this radio will help overcome the tedium of your stay in the hospital.
Do you have the temerity to argue with me?
Although the twins look alike, they differ markedly in temperament: Tod is calm, but Rod is excitable.
Noted for his temperate appetite, he seldom gained weight.
Not even her supervisor's grumpiness could temper Nancy's enthusiasm for her new job.
At one time in our history, temporal rulers assumed that they had been given their thrones by divine right.
I cannot permit you to temporize any longer; I must have a definite answer today.
I find the conductor's tempo too slow for such a brilliant piece of music.
I had to struggle to break his tenacious hold on my arm.
It is extremely difficult to overcome the tenacity of a habit such as smoking.
The editorials in this periodical are tendentious rather than truth-seeking.
Although no formal changes had been made against him, in the wake of the recent scandal the mayor felt he should tender his resignation.
The agnostic did not accept the tenets of their faith.
Mountain climbers must know the tensile strength of their ropes.
Your tentative plans sound plausible; let me know when the final details are worked out.
The allegiance of our allies is held by rather tenuous ties; let us hope they will remain loyal.
He was permanent tenure in this position and cannot be fired.
During the summer, I like to take a tepid bath, not a hot one.
When his contract was terminated unexpectedly, he desperately needed a new job.
The special terminology developed by some authorities in the field has done more to confuse laypersons than to enlighten them.
After we reached the railroad terminus, we continued our journey into the wilderness on saddle horses.
We have been able to explore the terrestrial regions much more thoroughly than the aquatic or celestial regions.
I admire his terse style of writing; he comes directly to the point.
He is so thorough that he analyzes tertiary causes where other writers are content with primary and secondary reasons.
I recall seeing a table with a tesselated top of bits of stone and glass in a very interesting pattern.
The attorney called in his secretary and his partner to witness the signature of the testator.
My advice is to avoid discussing this problem with him today as he is rather testy and may shout at you.
Before we went to sleep, we tethered the horses to prevent their wandering off during the night.
Those who think of Moby Dick as a simple adventure story about whaling miss is underlying thematic import.
Some Pilgrims favored the establishment of a theocracy in New England.
Bob was better at applied engineering and computer programming than he was at theoretical physics and math. While I can still think of some theoretical objections to your plan, you've convinced me of its basic soundness.
Now better known for its racetrack, Saratoga Springs first gained attention for the therapeutic qualities of its famous "healing waters."
The natives discovered that the host springs gave excellent thermal baths and began to develop their community as a health resort.
Her success in the school play convinced her she was destined for a thespian career.
The captured soldier was held in thrall by the conquering army.
A thrifty shopper compares prices before making major purchases.
Despite the impact of recession on the restaurant trade, Philip's cafe thrived.
The throes of despair can be as devastating as the spasms accompanying physical pain.
Throngs of shoppers jammed the aisles.
The criminal tried to throttle the old man with his bare hands.
He felt that everyone was trying to thwart his plans and prevent his success.
Jill called Jack a tightwad because he never picked up the check.
Fearing the wind might shift suddenly and capsize the skiff, Tom kept one hand on the tilter at all times.
We identify the instrument producing a musical sound by its timbre.
If you are to succeed as a salesperson, you must first lose your timidity and fear of failure.
He was timid and cowardish; always backing up at daunting situations.
His timorous manner betrayed the fear he felt at the moment.
He found that his most enjoyable evenings occurred when he tippled with his friends at the local pub.
Long before he had finished his tirade, we were sufficiently aware of the seriousness of our misconduct.
titanic waves beat aginst the shore during the hurricane.
Because he was an agnostic, he refused to pay his tithes to the clergy.
I am here not to titillate my audience but to enlighten it.
Though the penniless Duke of Ragwort no longer held title to the family estate, he still retained his title as head of one of England's oldest families.
Her aunt's constant titter nearly drove her mad.
Although he was the titular head of the company, the real decisions were made by his general manager.
Never tell the boss anything he doesn't wish to hear: he doesn't want an independent adviser, he just wants a toady.
Marc Antony pointed to the slashes in Caesar's toga.
You must toil through 3500 words list in order to achieve a high score on GRE.
He spent much time in the libraries poring over ancient tomes.
The tonic water invigorated her, contrary to the enervating effect of the alcohol.
His tonsure, even more than his monastic garb, indicated that he was a member of the religious order.
Before the generals gave the order to attack, they ordered a complete study of the topography of the region.
Nothing seemed to arouse him from his torpor; he had wholly surrendered himself to lethargy.
With her wrench she applied sufficient torque to the nut the loosen it.
Day after day of heavy rain saturated the hillside until the water ran downhill in torrents.
This torso, found in the ruins of Pompeii, is now on exhibition in the museum in Naples.
Because this road is so tortuous, it is unwise to go faster than twenty miles an hour on it.
What touchstone can be used to measure the character of a person?
Do not discuss this phase of the problem as he is very touchy about it.
I lost confidence in my broker after he touted some junk bonds that turned out to be a bad investment.
We must seek an antidote for whatever toxic substance he has eaten.
You will find the children in this school very tractable and willing to learn.
The King granted William Penn a tract of land in the New World.
His opponents tried to traduce the candidate's reputation by spreading rumors about his past.
The police tried to locate the spot from which the assassin had fired the fatal shot by tracing the trajectory of the bullet.
After the commotion and excitement of the city, I appreciate the tranquillity of these fields and forests.
This accomplishment transcends all our previous efforts.
When you transcribe your notes, please send a copy to Mr.Smith and keep the original for our files.
Forgive us our transgressions; we know not what we do.
Lexy's joy at finding the perfect Christmas gift for Phil was transient; she still had to find presents for the cousins and Uncle Bob. Located near the airport, this hotel caters to the largely transient trade.
During the period of transition from oil heat to gas heat, the furnace will have to be shut off.
Conscious that all things pass, the psalmist relates the transitoriness of happiness and fame.
We could not recognize the people in the next room because of the translucent curtains that separated us.
He was unable to transmute his dreams into actualities.
Your scheme is so transparent that it will fool no one.
When Austen writes the sentence "It had just transpired that he had left gaming debts behind him," her meaning is not that the debts had just been incurred, but the the shocking news had just leaked out.
Margo was a creature of extremes, at one moment in transports of joy over a vivid sunset, at another moment in transports of grief over a dying bird.
He loved the trappings of success: the limousines, the stock options, the company jet.
In his nightmares, he kept on recalling the traumatic experience of being wounded in battle.
How long do you think a man can endure such travail and degradation without rebelling?
When you traverse this field, be careful of the bull.
The ridiculous decision the jury has arrived at is a travesty of justice.
He is preparing a treatise on the Elizabethan playwrights for his graduate degree.
The tribe made their trek further north that summer in search of game.
She had a nervous tremor in her right hand.
 She was tremulous more from excitement than from fear.
I am afraid of his trenchant wit for it is so often sarcastic.
We must face the enemy without trepidation if we are to win this battle.
After all the trials and tribulations we have gone through, we need this rest.
The decision of the tribunal was final and the prisoner was sentenced to death.
The colonists refused to pay tribute to a foreign despot.
Neptune is usually depicted as rising from the sea, carrying his trident on his shoulder.
John is touchy today; say one word wrong and you'll trigger an explosion.
Romain Rolland's novel Jean Christophe was first published as a trilogy.
Whenever she traveled abroad, Ethel would pick up costume jewelry and other trinkets as souvenirs.
Thr trite and predictable situations in many television programs alienate many viewers.
Too many magazines ignore newsworthy subjects and feature trivia.
He gave her his troth and vowed to cherish her always.
The hungry pigs struggled to get at the fresh swill in the trough. The surfer rode her board, coasting along in the trough between two waves.
Tynan's reviews were noted for their caustic attacks and general tone of truculence.
Many a truism is well expressed in a proverb.
 tryst
The lovers kept their tryst even though they realized their danger.
I especially dislike his tumid style; I prefer writing which is less swollen and bombastic.
She could not make herself heard over the tumult of the mob.
Despite the cold, many geologists are trying to discover valuable mineral deposits in the tundra.
The water was turbid after the children had waded through it.
We were frightened by the turbulence of the ocean during the storm.
The waiters brought the soup to the tables in silver tureens.
The turgid river threatened to overflow the levees and flood the contryside.
Conscious he had sinned, he was in a state of spiritual turmoil.
The British considered Benedict Arnold a loyalist; the Americans considered him a turncoat.
A visitor may be denied admittance to this country if she has been guilty of moral turpitude.
Under the tutelage of such masters of the instrument, she made rapid progress as a virtuoso.
I am acting in my tutelary capacity when I refuse to grant you permission to leave the campus.
John D. Rockefeller was a prominent tycoon.
Frederick Douglass fought against the tyranny of slavery throughout his entire life.
For a mere tyro, you have produced some marvelous results.
That Christmas "The Little Drummer Boy" seemed ubiquitous: Justin heard the tune everywhere he went.
You must have an ulterior motive for your behavior, since there is no obvious reason for it.
Scientists are searching for the ultimate truths.
Since they have ignored our ultimatum, our only recourse is to declare war.
She took umbrage at his remarks and stormed away in a huff.
We were surprised by the unanimity with which our proposals were accepted by the different groups.
Her anger is unassuaged by your apology.
He is so unassuming that some people fail to realize how great a man he really is.
She had a sudden fit of unbridled rage.
You have the uncanny knack of reading my innermost thoughts.
She found the load shark's demands unconscionable and impossible to meet.
Most biographers portray Lincoln as an uncouth and ungainly young man.
The anointing with oil of a person near death is called extreme unction.
Uriah Heep disguised his nefarious actions by unctuous protestations of his "'umility."
Whereas relativity theory undermined the Newtonian mechanics, cosmology was undergirded by it.
The recent corruption scandals have undermined many people's faith in the city government.
Adressing the jogging class, Kim underscored the importance to runners of good nutrition.
The flag undulated in the breeze.
There is an unearthly atmosphere in her work that amazes the casual observer.
When they unearthed the city, the archeologists found many relics of an ancient civilization.
My answer to your proposal is an unequivocal and absolute "No."
My teacher unerringly pounced on the one typographical error in my essay.
She approached the guillotine with unfaltering steps.
She turned so pale that I am sure her surprise was unfeigned.
Chained to the wall for months on end, the hostage despaired that he would ever be unfettered.
It is hard for an unfledged writer to find a sympathetic publisher.
To disbar a lawyer, to unfrock a priest, to suspend a doctor's license to practice--these are extreme steps that the authorities should take only after careful consideration.
He is an ungainly young man; he trips over everything.
Apply this unguent to the sore muscles before retiring.
After a while, the uniformity of TV situation comedies becomes boring.
This legislation is unilateral since it binds only one party in the controversy.
Her conduct in office was unimpeachable and her record is spotless.
The congregation was shocked by her uninhibited laughter during the sermon.
Though Phil had expected to feel overawed when he met Joe Montana, he found the experience
You have the unique distinction of being the first student whom I have had to fail in this course.
The choir sang in unison.
At first, no one shared Christopher's opinions; his theory that the world was round was met with universal disdain.
The beggar was dirty and unkempt.
The secret service agents in charge of protecting the President tried to be as unobtrusive as possible.
Margaret Mitchell's book Gone with the Wind was an unprecedented success.
During adolescence many attractive young people somehow acquire the false notion that their appearance is unprepossessing.
With equal ease Miss Marple unraveled tangled balls of yarn and baffling murder mysteries.
Suffering the pangs of unrequited love, Olivia rebukes Cesario for his hard-heartedness.
The only way to curb this unruly mob is to use tear gas.
People with unsavory reputations should not be allowed to work with young children.
They prayed he would come back from the war unscathed.
Your levity is unseemly at this time of mourning.
Although James was an experienced emergency room nurse, he occasionally became queasy when faced with a particularly unsightly injury.
I am happy that my reputation is unsullied.
I find your theory untenable and must reject it.
Untoward circumstances prevent me from being with you on this festive occasion.
We could not understand Martin's unwarranted rudeness to his mother's guests.
The large carton was so unwieldy that the movers had trouble getting it up the stairs.
She was the unwitting tool of the swindlers
He hesitated to assume the unwonted role of master of ceremonies at the dinner.
I must upbraid him for his unruly behavior.
The uproarious comedy hit Home Alone featured Macaulay Culkin, whose mugging and comic antics provoked gales of uproarious laughter from audiences coast to coast.
The upshot of the rematch was that the former champion proved that he still possessed all the skills of his youth.
The courtier was urbane and sophisticated
Get out! This store is no place for grubby urchins!
Because of its ursine appearance, the great panda has been identified with the bears; actually, it is closely related to the raccoon.
The revolution ended when the victorious rebel leader usurped the throne.
The loan shark was found guilty of usury.
Shangri-la was the name of James Hilton's Tibetan utopia.
His friends laughed at him because he was so uxorious and submissive to his wife's desires.
Uncertain which suitor she ought to marry, the princess vacillated, saying now one, now the other.
The candidate's vacuous remarks annoyed the audience, who had hoped to hear more than empty platitudes
In summer, college students wander the roads of Europe like carefree vagabonds.
She followed every vagary of fashion.
Because he was a stranger in town with no visible means of support, Martin feared he would be jailed as a vagrant.
He tried to study, but could not collect his vagrant thoughts.
She was a vainglorious and arrogant individual.
I found the valedictory address too long; leave-taking should be brief.
I will not publish my findings until I validate my results.
You're going to have to come up with a better argument if you want to convince me that your reasoning is valid.
He received the Medal of Honor for his valor in battle.
Children were afraid to go to sleep at night because of the many legends of vampires.
We are the vanguard of a tremendous army that is following us.
They fired upon the enemy from behind trees, walls and any other point of vantage they could find.
She delivered an uninspired and vapid address.
Without her glasses, Gretchen saw the fields of tulips as a variegated blur.
The lord demanded that his vassals contribute more to his military campaign.
This much vaunted project proved a disappointment when it collapsed.
After what seemed an eternity, the wind veered to the east and the storm abated.
I do not understand how you can vegetate in this quiet village after the adventurous life you have led.
He spoke with vehement eloquence in defense of his client.
The train went by at considerable velocity.
The venal policeman accepted the bribe offered him by the speeding motorist whom he had stopped.
The rival mobs engaged in a bitter vendetta.
The fruit vendor sold her wares from a stall on the sidewalk.
Casual acquaintances were deceived by his veneer of sophistication and failed to recognize his fundamental shallowness.
We do not mean to be disrespectful when we refuse to follow the advice of our venerable leader.
In China, the people venerate their ancestors.
We may regard a hugry man's stealing as a venial crime.
The hunters dined on venison.
We shall now examine the ventral plates of this serpent, not the dorsal side.
This ventriloquist does an act in which she has a conversation with a wooden dummy.
A group of venturesome women were the first to scale Mt.Annapurna.
He vented his wrath on his class.
The wine did not flow because the air vent in the barrel was clogged.
The attorney asked for a change of venue; he thought his client would do better if the trial were held in a less conservative county.
I can recommend him for this position because I have always found him veracious and reliable.
Trying to prove Hill a liar, Senator Spector repeatedly questioned her veracity.
I know you don't like to talk about these things, but please try to verbalize your feelings.
He repeated the message verbatim.
After we had waded through all the verbiage, we discovered that the writer had said very little.
This article is too verbose; we must edit it.
Monet's paintings of the verdant meadows were symphonies in green.
Despite all attempts to protect the statue from the elements, it became coated with verdigris.
Madame Curie knew she was on the verge of discovering the secrets of radioactive elements.
Critics praised her for the verisimilitude of her performance as Lady Macbeth. She was completely believable.
The four verities were revealed to Buddha during his long meditation.
Cut out those old-fashioned "thee's" and "thou's" and write in the vernacular.
We may expect vernal showers all during the month of April.
He was a versatile athlete; at college he had earned varsity letters in baseball, football, and track.
Let us drop a perpendicular line from the vertex of the triangle to the base.
We test potential plane pilots for susceptibility to spells of vertigo.
She approached her studies with such verve that it was impossible for her to do poorly.
We discovered vestiges of early Indian life in the cave.
Please try not to vex your mother; she is doing the best she can.
The infant, though prematurely born, is viable and has a good chance to survive.
There was a variety of viands at the feast.
Many people get a vicarious thrill at the movies by imagining they are the characters on the screen.
Humbled by life's vicissitudes, the last emperor of China worked as a lowly gardener in the palace over which he had once ruled.
I am very happy to be able to provide you with these victuals; I know you are hungry.
Politicians vie with one another, competing for donations and votes.
Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty.
The New Yorker published her latest vignette.
Although he was over seventy years old, Jack had the vigor of a man in his prime.
She is a liar and is always trying to vilify my reputation.
I hope to vindicate my client and return him to society as a free man.
She was very vindictive and never forgave an injury.
The poet wondered what the vintners could buy that would be half as precious as the wine they sold.
The habitat of the horned viper, a particularly venomous snake, is in sandy regions like the Sahara or the Sinai peninsula.
I do not accept the premise that a man is virile only when he is belligerent.
She is a virtual financial wizard when it comes to money matters.
A virtue carried to extremes can turn into something resembling vice; humility, for example, can degenerate into servility and spinelessness.
The child prodigy Yehudi Menuhin grew into a virtuoso whose virtuosity on the violin thrilled millions.
The virus is highly virulent and has made many of us ill for days.
The doctors are looking for a specific medicine to control this virus.
The stern visage of the judge indicated that she had decided to impose a severe penalty.
She disliked the visceral sensations she had whenever she rode the roller coaster.
The trunk of the maple tree was viscid with sap.
Melted tar is a viscous substance.
Before filling its edges, the keysmith took the blank key and fixed it firmly between the jaws of a vise.
She was given to visionary schemes that never materialized.
The vital, highly energetic first aid instructor stressed that it was vital in examining accident victims to note their vital signs.
Fraud will vitiate the contract.
Although this plastic has many vitreous qualties such as transparency, it is unbreakable.
Such vitriolic criticism is uncalled for.
He became more vituperative as he realized that we were not going to grant him his wish.
She had always been vivacious and sparkling.
The Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals opposed vivisection and deplored the practice of using animals in scientific experiments.
Aware that she was right once again, he lost his temper and called her a shrew and a vixen.
The crowd grew vociferous in its anger and threatened to take the law into its own hands.
Jeans became the vogue on many college campuses.
The political climate today is extremely volatile: no one can predict what the electorate will do next.
She selected this dress of her own volition.
She was a voluble speaker, always ready to talk.
Despite her family burdens, she kept up a voluminous correspondence with her friends.
The nobility during the Renaissance led voluptuous lives.
The wolf is a voracious animal, its hunger never satisfied.
Sucked into the vortex of the tornado, Dorothy and Toto were carried from Kansas to Oz.
I can safely vouchsafe you fair return on your investment.
Jill called Jack a voyeur when she caught him aiming his binoculars at a bedroom window of the house next door.
Achilles was vulnerable only in his heel.
She disliked his sly ways, but granted him a certain vulpine intelligence.
When asked directly about the governor's involvement in the savings and loan scandal, the press secretary waffled, talking all around the issue.
Daydreaming, he gazed at the leaves that wafted past his window.
He was a prankster who, unfortunately, often overlooked the damage he could cause with his waggish tricks.
Although he already had eight cats, he could not resist adopting yet another feline waif.
I will waive my rights in this matter in order to expedite our reaching a proper decision.
The hippopotamus loves to wallow in the mud.
From now until December 21, the winter solstice, the hours of daylight will wane.
She tried to wangle an invitation to the party.
Pointing to the stack of bills, Sheldon criticized Sarah for her wanton expenditures. In response, Sara accused Sheldon of making an unfounded, wanton attack.
Suckling asked, "Why so pale and wan, fond lover?"
Every morning the birds warbled outside her window.
The purchaser of this automobile is protected by the manufacturer's warranty that he will replace any defective part for five years or 50,000 miles.
Before the judge issues the injunction, you must convince her this action is warranted.
The tenement was a veritable warren, packed with people too poor to live elsewhere.
The spies grew wary as they approached the sentry.
He was denounced as a wastrel who had dissipated his inheritance.
With proper handling, his fortunes waxed and he became rich.
They agreed to waylay their victim as he passed through the dark alley going home.
He decided he would wean himself away from eating junk food and stick to fruits and vegetables.
He weathered the changes in his personal life with difficulty, as he had no one in whom to confide.
The existing welter of overlapping federal and state proclaims cries out for immediate reform.
At the height of the battle, the casualties were so numerous that the victims weltered in their blood while waiting for medical attention.
The evidence of child abuse was very clear; Jennifer's small body was covered with welts and bruises.
She knows she can wheedle almost anything she wants from her father.
This collie whelp won't do for breeding, but he'd make a fine pet.
The odors from the kitchen are whetting my appetite; I will be ravenous by the time the meal is served.
The slightest whiff of Old Spice cologne brought memories of George to her mind.
He dismissed his generous gift to his college as a sentimental fancy, an old man's whimsical gesture.
When he laughed through his nose, it sounded as if he whinnied.
As a present for Aunt Polly, Tom whittled some clothespins out of a chunk of wood.
There is not a whit of intelligence or understanding in your observations.
Identification by fingerprints is based on the difference in shape and number of whorls on the fingers.
Donald had planned to kill his wife for months; clearly, her death was a case of deliberate, willful murder, not a crime of passion committed by a hasty, willful youth unable to foresee the consequences of his deeds.
She is as wily as a fox in avoiding trouble.
The screech of the chalk on the blackboard made her wince.
This huge tax refund is quite a windfall.
This test will winnow out the students who study from those who don't bother.
By her winsome manner, she made herself liked by everyone who met her.
Worried about preserving his few wispy tufts of hair, Walter carefully massaged his scalp and applied hair restorer every night.
With a last wistful glance at the happy couples dancing in the hall, Sue headed back to her room to study for her exam.
Rebuffed by his colleagues, the initially outgoing young researcher became increasingly withdrawn.
Cut flowers are beautiful for a day, but all too soon they wither.
Such witless and fatuous statements will create the impression that you are an ignorant individual.
What you regard as witticisms are often offensive to sensitive people.
Merlin amazed the knights with his wizardry.
The wizened old man in the home for the aged was still active and energetic.
As was his wont, he jogged two miles every morning before going to work.
You must leave your worldly goods behind you when you go to meet your Maker.
They wrangled over their inheritance.
She turned to him, full of wrath, and said, "What makes you think I'll accept lower pay for this job than you get?"
I am afraid he will wreak his vengeance on the innocent as well as the guilty.
She wrenched free of her attacker and landed a powerful kick to his kneecap.
With only ten seconds left to play, our team wrested victory from their grasp.
He was writhing in pain, desperate for the drug his body required.
The hero of Leonard's novel is a process server who invents unorthodox ways of serving writs on reluctant parties.
We enjoy Dorothy Parker's verse for its wry wit.
When the refugee arrived in America, he was unprepared for the xenophobia he found there.
She had a yen to get away and live on her own for a while.
It was not the aristocrat but the yeoman who determined the nation's policies.
An experienced farmer can estimate the annual yield of his acres with surprising accuracy.
The wounded knight refused to yield to his foe.
At school, his classmates regarded him as a yokel and laughed at his rustic mannerisms.
I don't wish to be yoked to him in marriage, as if we were cattle pulling a plow.
He dreamed of the elegant homes of yore, but gave no thought to their inelegant plumbing.
I can watch the Marx brothers' zany antics for hours.
It is good to have a few zealots in our group for their enthusiasm is contagious.
Wang's zeal was contagious; soon all his fellow students were busily making posters, inspired by his ardent enthusiasm for the cause.
When the sun was at its zenith, the glare was not as strong as at sunrise and sunset.
When these zephyrs blow, it is good to be in an open boat under a full sail.